The person in question has given us the following information: 

After two years of labour service I arrived home in March 1944. In May of the same year I was taken into the ghetto.
About 150 Jewish families lived in Gánya, most of them under sound circumstances. They were mostly tradesmen and craftsmen. In May 1944 gendarmes showed up at our house and took away all of our belongings and money. After that they took us into the ghetto in Kistécső. During the search for valuables the gendarmes completely undressed us and checked if we hid something. Meanwhile they were constantly beating us. Some 2000 people were concentrated in the ghetto. They put us into cellars where we could neither sit nor stand. The women did not have to work, but the men were taken to work at construction sites. Our supervisors at work were Gypsies, who beat us without any particular reason.
We were in the ghetto for three weeks and then they entrained us. Eighty people were packed into a locked cattle car where we could not move. There was no water or toilet in there either. The gendarmes handed us over to the SS in Kassa. On the way the SS were constantly plundering us and threatened to shoot us if we did not give them our valuables. We had travelled three days amidst terrible sufferings before we arrived in Auschwitz. 
There was a selection and then they made us have a shower and shaved our heads. They crammed 1500 people into one block. Sleeping was out of the question. When a little water was brought into the block, everybody ran for it, and in the turmoil the SS men shot dead a lot of prisoner. We did not have to work, but we had to line up for roll call from 3 am until sunrise. Afterwards we lined up for bread and meal, which took hours as well. The whole day was going on like that.
I was there for 12 days. Then they selected the stronger ones and took 1000 people to Bunzlau. We travelled for one day. They assigned us to an aircraft factory; sometimes we had to unload trains too. We worked 16 hours a day (from 4 am to 10 am) with a 30-minute lunch break. Our food supply was of good quality, but very scarce. We were accommodated in barracks, 160 people were in each block.
Seven months later they set us off again. We were marching for two months and covered 800-1000 kilometres while we had to draw carriages loaded with the belongings of the SS guards. On the way the only food they gave us was a little soup and turnips in the morning. Plenty of people starved to death. Those who fell behind were put onto the carriages. Three days later the SS shot 100 people, because some of them attempted to flee. By the time we arrived, 400 people were missing.
After two months of indescribable suffering, we arrived in Dora. We worked along a tunnel under the supervision of SS men, who often shot people without any reason. We worked 12 hours a day and got only 200 grams of bread and a plain soup. Consequently, people were dying off in hundreds because of starvation and thirst. We could not get any water to wash ourselves and therefore we got infested with lice. We were cold and they did not give us any blankets, so we had to sleep in our clothes. We were working without shoes and coats in the bitingly cold winter, which caused the death of many. Those who could not work were shot dead mercilessly by the SS. Ten days later they entrained us again. They put 130 people into an open freight car. The weather was piercingly cold and we did not have either shoes or coats. They gave us only a quarter of a loaf of bread for a journey of eight days. Half of the transport of 16,000 had perished along the way before we reached Bergen-Belsen. Most of them died of starvation. It was hard to find room to sitting in the cars, but those who tried to stand up were shot.
After eight days of terrible suffering we arrived in Bergen-Belsen. By that time we had grown so weak that we were on the verge of collapse. Luckily we did not have to work, but they hardly gave us any food either. Sometimes we got some potato peels and in our outrageous hunger we ate them. We were just lying all day because we were unable to stand up. Despite that, we had to report for roll call every morning at 6, which lasted for hours. A lot of people collapsed and they were beaten. Hundreds of corpses were lying all around in the camp. They collected and buried them when the Americans were approaching.
In the afternoon of April 15, 1945 American cars suddenly arrived in the camp, which meant that we were liberated. The Americans immediately rounded up the SS men and took them to work. We had a rest for two weeks there. We got very good food supply from the Americans. After that they took us to Zelle to rest. I came home with their help, via the Czech territories.
As for my future plans, I would like to immigrate to Palestine as soon as possible.