The person in question has given us the following information:

When the Hungarians arrived in Újvidék in 1941, the implementation of the Jewish Laws and the persecution commenced. April 13 was the infamous day and from that time on our situation gradually deteriorated. We had a restaurant and a café. The permission to sell alcohol was taken away from us in June; later we were deprived of even the trade permission, so we had to sell the store before it was confiscated. 

It happened in 1942. Five hundred gendarmes arrived in Újvidék, a whole unit from Szeged. They conducted an extensive raid. The previous evening was completely silent: we did not suspect anything. Then at 5 am placards appeared on the walls announcing that Jews were not allowed to walk the streets, all window blinds had to be closed; looking out of the window and listening to the radio was also prohibited. No one knew what was happening in the city; we stared at each other in horror. In a couple of hours rumour had it that the raid is against Serbian saboteurs. Unfortunately, very soon it was made clear that not only Serbs but Jews were also being dragged away. We heard a huge explosion at night. The ice of the Danube was being broken.  People were taken there in the terribly cold night: it was minus twenty-four-degree Celsius. They had to strip down and they were made to lie on their stomachs on a truck sideboard placed on the ground. Then all of them were shot in the nape of the neck and the dead bodies were slid into the ice hole on the sideboard.  The icy water engulfed even the living. We know that 2000 Jews and 2000 Serbs were murdered in three days: men, women, children, indiscriminately. 

On the third night, right when we were next to be killed, the raid was stopped upon orders. 

The whole action was led by General Zöldi, who massacred thousands and thousands of people with bestial brutality. 

Afterwards my husband, a disabled veteran, was harassed because of some minor financial offence, so that he was driven into suicide. 

On March 19, 1944 the Germans occupied Hungary. In Újvidék the officers were lodged right opposite to us in a marble palace. In the night we heard explosions, fighting, since they had to fight to occupy the city. 

From that on things unfolded very quickly. Gendarmes came and brought me out of my flat. They were looking for jewellery, then they sealed the flat and took us from Újvidék to Szabadka. Later I was informed by a semi-Gentile woman, who arrived later, that my flat had been opened and my furniture and clothes had been stolen. 

From Szabadka we were taken to Topolya on the very same morning, and the next dawn we were entrained. There were 80 persons in our terribly crowded cattle car; elderly, young and children. We did not get anything to eat or drink during the whole journey. We were taken towards an unknown future, blindfolded and deaf. 

When arriving in Auschwitz, first we were selected; men and women were taken separately, then the elderly and the young. After that we were taken to a bath where we got completely naked, all of our clothes were taken away. Though I asked it very intently, they did not even allow me to keep my glasses that were extremely important for me. They said that the glasses are not important, since I would not be reading newspaper anyway. After that I was tattooed, then they got us dressed oddly, giving us non-matching kind of clothing, shoes and stockings. We looked completely disfigured.  

After that we were put into a quarantine block, since there was a diarrhoea-like epidemic; we spent six weeks here. 

Later I was put among the healthy and I was assigned to work too. I worked in a weaving workshop where the work was not exceptionally hard, but the air was very stuffy, overused and heavy with the constant stink diffusing from dirty clothes we had to cut. I had no other work only this constant cutting. The pieces were obviously used as raw material for new clothes. It also happened that we cut the cloths of deportees. On one occasion we had to cut prayer shawls; if I remember correctly this was on a Jewish holiday. 

Our food was scarce. We got some soup and a piece of bread every day, which was not enough, but extra rations were out of the question. It was impossible. This is how starvation started.

Bathing possibilities were mediocre. I went through selection twice; Dr Mengele performed the selection. I was in horror seeing him, since I had three operation scars and if he had noticed, I would have been taken to the crematorium for sure. Somehow I managed to avoid it, even though I was not young. 

Next station of my deportation: Bergen-Belsen. 

In Bergen-Belsen we did not have to work, but the rations we got were even smaller than in Auschwitz. Two-three decilitres of turnip soup, two decilitres of coffee and 10 decagrams of bread was extremely scarce even for such an inactive life. Moreover, these rations were even stolen from, so it is easy to imagine that we got almost nothing. 

Here we were overcome with lice, since the block we were put into was already full of them. We suffered a lot and we tried to exterminate them in vain. 

All of us got very weak, our condition deteriorated and we were full of fear about our future. The guards were brutal to us: they pushed, kicked and beat us. 

We were suffering from the cold and the winter. Neither our rations nor our lodging and clothing were sufficient; there were a lot of wounds due to frostbite. Many prisoners were dying from hunger.  

From Bergen-Belsen we went to Braunschweig where we spent a longer period of time. We were treated very badly; I was almost beaten to the point of being crippled. My hand was beaten so hard that my bones fissured and my head was broken too. We became almost idiots due to the constant beating; we were unable to think. Many were praying for death only to be set free from the terrible beating. We were living like animals here; we were lying in our lodging thrown at each other, forsaken, destroyed.  

The next stop was Wartenstadt where we were taken to hospital because of the terrible lice infections. We were receiving medical treatment. Polish physicians worked here, they treated us very well and cured us. After getting healed we were taken to Ravensbrück, since the Nazis were trying to get away from the Russians. We were liberated here by the Russians after 10 days spent in Ravensbrück, i. e., on May 2, 1945. 

All the above is based on my own experience.