The persons named above have given us the following information:

Around 9,000 Jewish families lived in Huszt. They were mostly tradesmen and 
craftsmen living in diverse financial conditions. Some were prosperous, but some 
were really poor. Our father traded wood, we had a decent life, we had a house, 
lands, and forests.
In 1939, antisemite measures were taken, which led to the withdrawal of trade 
licences, to the seizing of forests, of properties, etc. It was the first 
notary, József Bíró, who made these measures public, and had them observed very 
strictly and ruthlessly that there was no way to resist them. The rest of the 
population did not support us at all. When Hungarians entered the countryside 
they withdrew the trade license of a Jewish baker and gave his shop to a French 
wanderer named Mátyás Marx. It was such a disgrace that he had to escape through 
the window, that is how much he was beaten, and the license was given to this 
wanderer. The shop still exists.
The ghetto was opened the 29th of April, 1944, and we stayed there till the 10th 
of May. The president of the Jewish Council was László Moszka. We were satisfied 
with him, he was a very decent man.
They searched houses, seized everything, even furniture, and even ploughed the 
fields to see what we hid there.
The ghetto was in the town centre next to the city hall. We were taken there by 
gendarmes on wagons and could bring 50 kilos of luggage. We had to leave the 
rest at home. The ghetto was enclosed and was guarded by gendarmes outside and 
by Jews inside. There were 9,000 Jewish families closed in there. We were put up 
in a stall together with 9 other families. We lived on our own food. In the 
ghetto we had to work for the SS. They told us we were going to be employed in 
Hungary but we did not believe it. We tried to escape but at the end we stayed 
because we did not want to leave our parents. Around 20 people escaped, although 
there was little chance for that.
There was no plundering going on here. As far as we remember a small child died 
but no one else. It was First Notary József Bíró who hastened our deportation 
the most.
We could bring with us 2 shirts, 2 pairs of trousers, 2 dresses and a pair of 
shoes. We left the rest there. From the ghetto we walked to the brick factory 
escorted by the SS in the streets and spent there a half day. In the afternoon 
they searched us to check whether we had gold or money on us and seized leather 
clothes, jackets, mackintoshes, shoes, and whatever they liked. When Hungarians 
searched women, they searched them nude. Men were searched separately.
In one case they searched a rich man called Landau who denied that he had 
anything on him. They warned him a second time to produce what he had, because 
if they found something they would shoot him. He went on denying. Then they took 
his shoes off and found golden money in its heel. Three Hungarian gendarmes 
pushed Landau onto the floor and beat him with the baton. When he could not move 
anymore, a gendarme took him and shot him.
As a next step we went to the railway station, and boarded the cattle cars while 
we were whipped by gendarmes. As we were among the last, there were only 52 of 
us in a car. Hungarian gendarmes accompanied us and kept asking for money. Since 
we had no money left they beat us up badly. They came to ask for money at every 
station and when we asked for water they refused it, although small children 
were crying terribly. This is how we travelled till Kassa. At the station they 
again wanted money from everyone. My sister was even pulled off the train and 
was undressed by a Hungarian gendarme, who threatened to shoot me if he found 
something on us, but he found nothing. He took even the underwear off my elder 
sister before he let her get back on train. They also claimed they had shot 8 
people from the previous transport because they wanted to hide their golden 
objects. Freight cars were opened only for a very short time for some 
ventilation, and they gave us no water. A young woman died in the car giving 
birth to a baby because no one could help her.
Hungarians escorted us till Kassa where Germans took charge of us and 
transported us to Auschwitz. When we got off, we had no time to say goodbye to 
anyone. The four of us were walking with our mother but our mother ran away to 
the other side to stay with our little sister of 8 years because she saw her 
bitterly crying because a German was beating her. We have not seen either her or 
our little sister any more. We do not want to concede what has happened to them.
We were taken into the baths where they cut off our hair. We washed and dressed 
in long black ragged clothes. When we were walking to the barracks, we heard the 
cries and lamentations of the elderly but after a point we heard nothing 
anymore. There were no beds or anything at all in our barrack so we sat on the 
floor. There were 1,000 of us in the barrack. Staying close to each other we 
kept ourselves warm. In the evening a Lagerführer entered and said: "your mother 
does not exist." He said it because we were crying a lot for our family, and he 
strongly slapped a girl.
From 4 am till 11 am we were lined up for roll call waiting to be registered by 
the Germans. We stayed here for 4 days before they took us to another camp. 
Fifteen of us lay on a berth, that is how much we were crammed. Now we also got 
lunch, everyone in the same pot; without a spoon we ate it with great 
difficulties. From 2 pm till the evening, we were standing because of a roll 
call (Appell). In the evening we got 200 grams of bread and 10 grams of 
margarine and went to lie down. During the night the female block leader woke us 
up, claiming we were going to be taken into the crematorium. We started shouting 
and crying so they left us in peace. To wake us up like this was obviously a 
form of torture.
In the morning we reported for roll call again till the Aufseherin selected the 
old and the slim even if they were young. They took us for work. This is how we 
lived for three months in this camp. When there was another selection, my 
younger sister remained while I left with my elder sister. After the selection 
we had another bath. At 9 pm there was a roll call again and my younger sister 
was taken into block 27. It was the German doctor Lengeri who did the selection. 
Lengeri selected my sister for work. She lived in block 25, we were in block 27. 
Here we had to work carrying bricks which was a hard job.
From Auschwitz we went to Görlicz, where they separated us and selected for 
different work in the plant. We worked 12 hours a day in day and night shifts, 
changing shifts every week. There were no Sundays, no holidays, we worked all 
the time.
There was a Lagerältester (lager foreman) who destroyed a lot of people by 
beating them severely. Also in the factories, civilian masters beat men. We were 
starving but there was nothing to eat. We ate potato peels and things even 
worse. In our hunger we ate raw marrow and beetroot and also turnips. We stayed 
there till January when they took us to Rennesdorf.
A man was walking with his son but was not able to move on. He was shot while 
his son got a bullet in his leg. By the time we got there, around 150 people 
were shot. When we arrived in Rennesdorf, in a farm they put those people on a 
wagon who could not walk and a soldier shot them somewhere.
We lived in a barn for 3 weeks. We could neither wash ourselves or anything 
else, nor were we allowed to go to the toilet. Everyone got lice. The men were 
practically eaten by lice, they got completely destroyed.
We worked for an #umag plant. The work was difficult, the food was scarce.
We returned again to Görlicz and went on working there. When American planes 
came, we had to carry on and were not allowed to go into the cellar. Everyone 
ran into the cellar; only we Jews stayed. In the evening we got 150 grams of 
bread and beetroot without anything. The Germans told us that it was what they 
ate, too. It had been war for 6 years and they became poor. Later, the 
Lagerältester man was replaced but the new one was not better either.
There was selection every day or every second day. They often came even by 
night. No one came back from those who were taken away.
The Russians liberated us the 9th of May, 1945.
These were our own experiences.