The person in question has given us the following information: 

We were entrained in the ghetto of Munkács and taken to Auschwitz. Seventy to eighty of us were crowded together into closed freight cars, so we could not move. There was neither water nor WC in the cars. Talking loudly gave the SS men an occasion to beat people. If someone looked out of the windows through the wire-netting, they shot into the car. We travelled for three days and three nights, suffering badly, until we arrived in Auschwitz. We got off the train in the middle of the night. We were standing outside all night and then taken to the disinfection building. Previously Dr Mengele singled out the younger ones and sent them to the left, while he sent the older ones and mothers with children to the right, i.e., to the crematorium. Our heads were shaved in the bath; our good and nice belongings were replaced with rags called clothes in which we did not look like human beings.
There was no work for us and therefore we spent the whole day with lining up for roll call. They were beating us without any reason. Three months later the stronger ones were sorted out. Some 200 of us were put on a transport and entrained. They distributed a quarter of a loaf of bread and some cheese for the journey. After one and a half days we arrived at Oberwüstegiersdorf.
In that camp we were placed into wooden barracks as well. We worked in an ammunition factory. Our work was very hard, but the SS female overseer supervising our work did not treat us badly. We were working 13 hours a day with a food supply of 200 grams of bread and plain soup. Therefore we were starving very much and many of us fell ill with tuberculosis, mainly because of the small amount of food and the hard work. The ill received medical treatment in the infirmary, so there were relatively few deaths.
In the last days the German soldiers already spoke to us and told us that the Führer had died and the German capital had fallen. We could not believe that. In a few days Russian troops showed up in the camp with trucks. It was only then that we believed what we had heard from the SS men.
Shortly after we took the road on foot, because all the railway lines had been bombed. It took weeks to travel through the Czech Republic on foot and by train. Czech civilians were unbelievably nice and generous to the deportees. Besides that they provided the best food for us and they offered their own flats to accommodate us.
Regarding the future the only thing I can say is that I would like to immigrate to Palestine as soon as possible.