The person in question has given us the following information:

On May 4, 1944 I was walking the streets without wearing a yellow star and detectives arrested me. First I was taken to a detention house then to the Sárvár internment camp. On May 19 I was put on a large transport and was taken to Germany. There were approximately 80 of us in a cattle car, so we could not move at all. The car was closed and we travelled for three days without any food or water. 
After three days of travel we arrived in Auschwitz. Mengele selected us: the old, the sick and the children, generally with their mothers, were put into a separate group; those capable of working were put into another group.  I was assigned to the latter group, and only learned later about the fate that awaited the former group consisting of the majority of our transport.  After bathing, disinfection and depilation we were deprived of all of our clothes and given ragged summer clothes in exchange, then we were taken into a block.  I spent eight days here and during this time they tormented me with the constant roll calls. 
I was put on a labourer’s transport and taken to the labour camp of Monowitz. I was performing cable work; the work was hard, but the general living conditions were tolerable.  In January the Russian front was getting dangerously close, so the camp was evacuated on January 18. The real suffering started then. 
After three days of marching we arrived in Gleiwitz.  The next day we were taken to Buchenwald. It took us 11 days to get there and we had to face indescribable ordeals. We travelled in open freight cars in a wild blizzard, we were wearing ragged summer clothes, we had no blankets and what was the worst: we had no food or water.  In the course of the 11 days we got food only once: from the Czech Red Cross in Prague. The number of the dead increased and we travelled with the corpses in the freight car. 
In Buchenwald we lived in a quarantine camp for two months. There were eight of us on a wooden bunk; dirt and lice everywhere. Many boys died here due to fatal exhaustion. 
On April 1 this camp was evacuated too. We were transported in open freight cars for 10 days and then we marched for another four, once again without food. People were “kicking the bucket” one after the other because of the hunger.

We spent four days in Flossenbürg, then this camp was evacuated too and another, even more terrible march was awaiting us. We were set off in a real “death march” for Dachau. The guards were not satisfied with hundreds of people dying of fatal exhaustion, so they used more radical methods: they attacked with machine guns. Out of the 10,000 prisoners leaving with the transport only 2000 arrived in Dachau on April 27. All of us were close to death.  To our luck in two days, on April 29, American troops liberated us. They provided us with careful attendance and everything we needed, thus they saved our lives.