The person in question has given us the following information:

I started my labour service in Hangony on June 4, 1944. We worked at various places for one or two weeks: we repaired railroads, constructed an airfield, loaded freight cars, etc. The behaviour of the guards shifted back and forth between good and bad. On November 13 we were transferred to Budapest as a company enjoying diplomatic protection. Probably I was denounced by somebody, since one night I was sleeping at home, when the Arrow Cross came and took me from the building to the brick factory. Here I had to face the wall and stand there with my arms lifted up while they were completely robbing me. Even the smallest pockets were searched through and everything was taken away. If in the brick factory somebody went to the bathroom, he was hit by the butt of a rifle. The next day we were entrained and taken right to Berlin-Oranienburg.

Here all of our clothes were taken away (there was nothing else to take away from us) and they gave us striped uniforms. We worked in an ammunition factory. The camp was far from the working site and the distance had to be covered by running there and back. Those who could not run fast enough were beaten up. In the morning there was a roll call followed by eight hours of work. It was already the time of extensive bombardments, but we had to work during the air raid alerts too. On one occasion a man escaped, therefore we had to lie outdoors on the ground for three hours. That was the time when I got nephritis. 

On December 25 I was taken to Ohrdruf. There were ten huge barracks here. The straw in our barrack was bloody and full of lice; we had to lie on this. This was the death barrack. One man died after the other. In the factory we were constantly beaten during work. Food was scarce; everybody grew weak. 


The kidney problems I got in Oranienburg became intolerable: I lost all my strength and became a “Musulman”.  On January 10 we left for Buchenwald with a transport of the ill. Many died in the cattle car. The escorting SS men contributed to that by beating up the helpless people. Once I was kicked so hard by an SS that I rolled out of the car. Unfortunately I had to crawl back. Allegedly the SS men had an order to execute the whole transport. However by then they had run out of time and they simply fled. We were left there in the cattle cars without anything to eat. Those who were capable of moving crawled out to pick some grass or snails on the field and ate it. We were hardly alive when the Americans reached us.