The aforementioned László Boros testifies for both of the above mentioned persons: 
I started my labour service on May 20, 1944 in Vác. From here we were set off on May 27, 1944 and after five days of travel we arrived in Bor. The guards welcomed us with beatings. This was due to the activity of Lieutenant Colonel Marányi, who had a 25-centimetre yellow star painted on the clothes of the labour servicemen front and back with oil-paint, so that the rain could not wash it off. After the arrival we were searched and all of our belongings were taken away. Actually I was not in Bor, but in camp Heidenau, 40 kilometres from Bor. Work was not very hard here. We were here until August 29, 1944, when we were directed back to Bor. We were told that due to the military situation (the Russians invaded Bulgaria that time) Bor would be evacuated and we would be taken back to Hungary. 
On September 16, 1944 we were set off from Bor. Our eight days of marching in Serbia was quite all right. The atrocities started in Banat: those lagging behind were shot dead by the local ethnic German units. Approximately 300 died here. We arrived in Cservenka via Újvidék where the Hungarian guards handed us over to the local SS units. The executions commenced on the next day. At first two transports consisting of 500 people were taken away; I was in the second transport. The SS threw hand grenades and shot into the crowd.  Approximately 1000 people perished here. From here we were almost running 26 kilometres all the way to Zombor, since the SS guards chased us really hard.  Of course the executions were carried on and dead bodies were lying on both sides of the road. 
We spent three days in Zombor and we got some bread only once and bit of soup twice.  From here the SS took us to Mohács and we were guarded there for eight days. The average was one meal in every two days. We were here when the Arrow Cross seized power in Hungary. The SS Scharführer told us that the rule of the Jews in the world is over once and for all.  After eight days the SS handed us back to the military replacement centre no. 4 in Mohács.  After one and a half days we were entrained and taken to Szentkirályszabadja.
Here we were received by Lieutenant Colonel Marányi and the guards from Bor. Warrant Officer Szabó and Corporal Horváth were the worst of all. On the fifth day we were set off on foot for Hegyeshalom via Veszprém and Győr. We marched the whole way. We were entrained at Zürndorf from where we arrived in Sachsenhausen on November 4, 1944 after travelling two and a half days.  
Under the pretext of disinfection we were deprived of everything. Nine hundred of us arrived here, but there were only two hundred sick (including me) and we were taken to hospital immediately. Unfortunately the food supply in the hospital was not apt for a sick body. The treatment was the worst possible. On December 15, 1944 I was released from the hospital. I suffered a lot from the cold due to my scant attire; I survived the winter without any warm clothing. There were days when we lined up for roll call for five to six hours in minus 15-20 degrees Celsius. No wonder that more and more people got sick. I fell ill with pneumonia and was sick from January 15, 1945 to March 15, 1945. The food was terribly scarce. We got 25 decagrams of bread and one and a half litre of soup a day, which of course did not help my recovery. I was kicked out of the hospital on March 15, 1945 because those who got wounded in the extensive air raids needed the room. The food and the treatment were constantly deteriorating to the point when my weight reached 41 kilograms, while I am 176 centimetres tall. I could hardly walk, I had no strength whatsoever. Near the end food was distributed only once a day because of the Russian attacks. On April 21, 1945 the Russians were only five kilometres from the camp, when the SS decided to evacuate the camp. We were rounded up and taken away at 11 pm. I was going into hiding in the last minute in one of the blocks and the next day the Russians liberated us. Out of the 30,000 inmates of the camp only 200 was hiding.  
On April 25, 1944 the Russians released us saying that everything was ours. We acquired clothes and food from the Germans. We stayed for five weeks in a tiny village called Schmachtenhagen, then we got home in 11 days via Berlin, Prague and Bratislava.