The person in question has given us the following information: 

My mother and me moved into a building protected by the Swedish Red Cross to be safe from the Arrow Cross atrocities. Unfortunately it was impossible to escape. They entered the safe house, arbitrarily selected people and dragged them away. Some (like me) were taken to Germany, others were taken to the ghetto and some completely disappeared. The latter were taken to the Danube embankment by the Arrow Cross, who shot and pushed them into the river. My group was taken to the brick factory and the next day to the Józsefváros railway station. We travelled in locked up cattle cars for 10 days. We did not get anything to eat on the way. What we really begged for was water, since we had some food we had brought from home. When the train stopped for a longer time, peasants came up to the train and gave us a glass of water for money. 
We arrived in	Ravensbrück. This was a huge camp with at least 3000 prisoners. Immediately after arrival we were undressed and bathed; our clothes were taken away and we were given striped prisoner’s clothing. The camp was so crammed that we lay on the floor of the barrack for eight days. We had to get up at 4 am every day and then we had to line up for roll call. The rations were as follows: half a litre of coffee in the evening and in the morning, turnip soup at noon and a small piece of bread. I starved a lot here and I was happy to be put on a transport and to be taken away to Pannig after six weeks.   
We arrived in Pennig after three days of travel. This was a small labour camp. I worked in an ammunition factory, which was four kilometres away from the camp. We had to cover this distance on foot twice a day. We worked eight hours a day standing at the machines. The female overseers were beating us. We got half a litre of turnip soup and 12 decagrams of bread a day. By that time I was very weak and sick. Since there were few prisoners capable of working, when I reported sick to the overseer, she said I was not and beat me up with her whip.  She did that several times to other people as well. My wounds got purulent due to the lack of vitamins and I had to lie down. Meanwhile the frontline was approaching and the whole camp was evacuated. Seventy sick people (including me) were left there and an order was issued that we had to be shot down.  The SS guards did not execute the orders; they escaped and took all the food, so we ate leaves for three days. When the Americans arrived, we were so weak that we could hardly move.