The person in question has given us the following information:

There were six Jewish families living in Beregpapfalva. They were craftsmen, tradesmen and all of them were quite poor. We owned a small piece of land and a pub. 
The antisemitic measures started in last April. Our pub and our land were taken away. 
The gendarmes took us away to the ghetto of Munkács in mid-April. We left all of our property at home: flat, furniture, animals, etc. There were Germans too and they pushed the Jews into the river and we had to kneel in the water and the men were beaten up. 
We had to work in the ghetto. I was carrying bricks, which was very hard, since I had to do it all day. 
After four weeks we were entrained and taken to Auschwitz. Previously we were told that we would go to Hortobágy to perform earthwork there. I did not believe this. There were 70 of us in one cattle car. There were many children too and we did not get any water and the children were crying hard and no one wanted to give us any water. We were escorted by military gendarmes to Kassa and then we were taken over by the Germans. We were crying because of the hunger, especially the kids. 
After arriving in Auschwitz I was separated from my mom and dad, since they were already 50 years old and they took them away. We did not see each other again. 
We went to the bath where everything was taken away from us, even the photograph of my mom and our hair was cropped and we bathed and went to the block. We got some green mush to eat. Other days we were given mixed beats and carrots: this is what they gave us all the time.
The female block leaders beat us badly and we cried a lot. We were woken up at 4 am every day and we went out to the cold and lined up for roll call for hours. And we were also punished by having to stand erect if something was not going well.  It was extremely cold in the morning and it became very hot by noon and we were not allowed to drink water and we suffered a lot from this. 
We had to break and carry stones, which was extremely hard work. We worked 12 hours a day without a break.  
From Auschwitz we went to Geislingen. We did not work for three weeks and were not given anything to eat either, so we starved a lot. Later we could go to work in the factory. This was an ammunition factory. Our rations did not get any better, even though we were working by then, so we were so hungry that we ate grass and nettle we found on the ground. I worked at night here too. If by accident I fell asleep because of the exhaustion, then I had to scrub the floor and I could not go to bed before scrubbing the whole floor.  If our beds were not tidy enough, we had to stand erect for hours even if it was raining or snowing. 
Later we went to Allach. We did not get anything to eat here either and the capos beat us a lot here. Many prisoners got sick and we were very weak because of the hunger and many were so sick that they could barely move. 
After that we did not get anything to eat at all and we were taken to Tyrol where they wanted to shoot us dead. Luckily the English arrived and liberated us; we were given plenty of food and we were well off. I wish my parents would be here who loved me so much and whom I miss greatly.  
All the above is based on my own experience.