The person in question has given us the following information: 
 
My father was a grocer in Kassa. He had two houses, the third one had just started to be 
built then. We lived in a five-room flat with my parents and my two siblings; my father 
was definitely considered a rich man. He buried somewhere a lot of money, jewellery and 
receipts written by his Christian friends stating what and how much they had accepted 
from him for safekeeping. He, the poor man, died in Auschwitz. I am the only one at 
home as yet and I do not know where he buried those valuables, so I do not know if I can 
ever get hold of them. My father was, on account of his decorations earned in the other 
war, exempt from Jewish law together with his whole family. We did not have to wear 
the yellow star and when all the other Jews from Kassa were sent to the ghetto, we were 
told we did not have to go there. Yet, this was the time when my father tried to find a safe 
place for his valuables. Although, some days later a gendarme appeared and said that we 
had to go. After half an hour another one came and said we could stay. It went on like 
that for days, we lived in continuous anxiety; finally one day they took us to the ghetto 
nevertheless. We had to get ready within an hour, and we could take with us what we 
wanted. I could have escaped but my parents insisted on our staying together. If they had 
suspected that our being together would last for such a short time, they might have let me 
escape.  
They crammed the Jews in the brickyard of Kassa, plenty of people in a very small place. 
We stayed there for four weeks. We lived mostly on what we had brought with us.  
Chief inspector Dr Csatári was continuously beating people with a dog whip. When 
it came to his mind, he went in the block and he hit whomever he found there with 
the dog whip.       
On one occasion he ordered through a microphone every young girl to come out. He took 
them out and forced them to dig out thick wooden stakes from the ground with their 
hands. Even the SS soldiers were scandalized by this; they said that for them, such things 
are done with spades.       
Many people escaped from the brickyard. We were told that we would be taken to do 
agricultural work but we would stay in Hungary. We would have liked to believe this, but 
we found it suspicious that German soldiers were there with us.      
One Sunday morning, they woke us up at 4 o'clock in the morning. Policemen occupied 
the brickyard. We all had to gather at a large place and stand there in the blazing sun till 3 
o'clock in the afternoon.      
They did not let us eat or go for water. A friend of mine escaped even from there. We 
were allowed to take a pillow and a duvet with us in the cattle car.  
72 people were in our cattle car together with plenty of bedclothes and packages of food. 
It was terribly hot in the cattle car and we were horribly thirsty. 
After a three-day journey we arrived in Auschwitz on 21st May. We had to jump out of 
the cattle cars and we were told to leave our baggage there, they would be sent after us. 
They lined us up and by the time I became aware of what was happening I had been in a 
group with one of my younger brothers but without my father.
We who were able to work were taken to the bath; they stripped us naked and bathed us, 
then they took us to block No. 13. 5 people had to find space on one berth. We made a lot 
of noise and then the overseer came in and struck us with a truncheon. That was the first 
beating. We lined up twice a day for "Appell" and if somebody was not standing as 
upright as a ramrod, they struck him. Those who went out to the toilet were also beaten 
up.  
Three days later we were taken to Wolfsberg. We were put in tents made of cardboard, 3 
metres in diameter, 20 people in each. We did a very hard work there, first at road 
construction, then chiselled concrete in a tunnel. Our provisions consisted of 1/3 of a loaf 
of bread, some black coffee in the morning and some soup without any content. We 
starved terribly and became very weak. If they saw somebody getting hold of a raw 
potato, he received 25 strikes on his soles and they took the potato away. 
One of their favourite punishments was that when we came back from work and were 
tired, they made us do somersaults, or we had to be crouching or jumping for a quarter of 
an hour. They called it doing sports. After 12 hours of hard work and being provisioned 
like that it was difficult to survive. 10-12 people died every day. My leg developed a 
tumour and I had already been very weak then, so I was taken to hospital. I spent four 
months in hospital and my leg was operated on but I could not regain my strength after 
that. It happened sometimes that the leader of the hospital did not give the patients food 
for a day.  
I was discharged from hospital on 15th January and they took me to Wüstegiesdorf. 800 
people lived there in a big building. I was very glad, because that camp was clean and 
washing in hot water was a daily obligation. The provisions were better in the sense that 
we could go to the city and there we could acquire some food. I was a gatekeeper and for 
this I received double rations. Much to my delight I met one of my uncles there, who 
worked at the kitchen and always gave me a little food. When the Russians were 
approaching, two of our comrades escaped. We were packed up and we marched 70 
kilometres within 2 days in terrible cold. We arrived in Qualisch on a Monday, but we 
were given something to eat only on Friday. We suffered terribly from hunger. What the 
peasants threw away, like rotten potatoes of turnips, we picked up from the rubbish 
pile and ate them. We already looked so bad that we did not even like to look at each 
other. Finally they put us in open freight cars, 60 people in each. We were travelling for 
six days; it was snowing and we were suffering terribly from cold too. 6 people died in 
my freight car during that journey. Many people went mad. 800 people started from 
Wüstegiesdorf and 500 of us arrived in Hildesheim. And from those only 400 were able 
to work. We had to rebuild a train station destroyed by bombs. It was very hard work to 
carry rails and sleepers when we had already been almost unable to drag ourselves along. 
The provisions were getting worse and worse every day. We received 1/6 of a loaf of 
bread and some soup once a day, but it often happened that the bread was omitted. 
The following case made a terrible impression on me: a freight car containing food 
destroyed by a bomb was standing on the train station. Those who could tried to get some 
food from it. One of the Scharführers saw when a boy of 14 hid a tin of food under his 
jacket. He ordered the boy to sit down on the ground and pressed his gun to his temple. 
The child began to beg, so he removed the revolver from there but he put it back in a 
minute. This game repeated again and again and it was awful to hear the fear of death 
in the child's voice, he was practically howling and whimpering of fear. When the 
German soldier became bored with this amusement, he grabbed both hands of the 
child and shot him in the head.  
There was another case when a prisoner escaped from the camp but he was caught. The 
whole camp had to appear at the hanging and the boy's father was placed in the 
first row, right next to the gallows; he had to watch his son's death till the end.       
In Belsen the whole camp got typhus. We had to carry or pull the corpses in our arms to 
the place of collection.  
In Hannover, we worked all the time at night in a tunnel; they said they were building an 
underground airplane factory. They beat us awfully there. Hits were raining upon us 
practically every minute. People were falling down like flies in the autumn.  
 
We received half a litre of soup every other day. We were suffering from hunger. It 
happened there that one wretch cut some flesh out of the thigh of a dead man and he 
also took his lungs out. The dead man's fellows saw that and they took the man to 
the back and they beat him until he collapsed full of blood. When he recovered 
consciousness, they began to beat him again until he died. I will never forget that 
horrible episode. 
       
An SS man shot dead a physician called Schönstein, because he had gone out to pick 
some carrots. 
When the English came in, they only found skeletons in our camp. We belonged already 
to the dead, rather than living people.