The person in question has given us the following information:

I started my labour service on June 7, 1944 in Jolsva. From there I was taken to the Carpathian Mountains with company no. 107/311 around July 10. We constructed a road on a mountain between Delatin and Kolomea and later we dug trenches in the frontline. We worked at four to five other places up in the Carpathians: we either built roads or we laid mines. The Hungarian guards treated us badly, but the rations were fine. At around the end of August I became ill and I was taken to hospital first in Técső and later in Tiszaújlak. From here I was placed back to Jolsva after four weeks of recovering. After two weeks I was taken to Pusztavám in the Transdanubian region. I spent about two weeks here, but when after the October 15 proclamation of Horthy the general atmosphere became unbearably hostile to us, I decided to flee. Those two hundred and fifteen fellow labour servicemen of mine who stayed there were shot dead on the next day by the Germans.  
After hiding in various places I was eventually captured in Budapest. Although I had Swiss protection, I was entrained from Garrison Albrecht by Hungarian gendarmes and soldiers and I was taken to Sachsenhausen. We travelled for 10 days with almost no food or water.  
After arriving in Sachsenhausen we were immediately disinfected. All of our belongings were taken away and we had to put on summer pants without underwear, shirts and clogs. From that moment I was suffering from cold and hunger during my complete stay in Germany. We were treated in the most brutal way. 
From here I was taken to a labour camp called Briesen where we had to assemble the pipe system of a chemical factory. 
When the Russians were getting close, I was taken to Buchenwald where the treatment, the food supply and the accommodation got even worse, if that was at all possible. 
On March 3 I was taken to Bisingen close to the Swiss border. Prior to our arrival 1000 people died in a short period of time and we were taken there as a replacement. 
From here we were taken to Dachau (Allach) on April 4. Two weeks later we were entrained and aimlessly transported up and down until the Americans liberated us in Staltach. From Staltach the Americans took us to a camp called Stein by car. I weighed 40 kilograms and I was taken to hospital there with pneumonia. Later they took me to the Hungarian military hospital of Geretsried where I received perfect treatment. Later I was accommodated in a sanatorium in Ebenhausen. For 11 weeks I received royal food supply and medical treatment. At the end of September I reported in the Feldafing camp to come home and I managed to return after five days. 
I was informed that my wife, who was taken away from the Miskolc ghetto and whom I tried to find after my liberation, was taken into the hospital of Bergen-Belsen with typhoid fever on April 15, then she disappeared. My mother had also vanished. 
So far I do not have future plans.