The person in question has given us the following information:

I joined the labour service company in Nagykáta on 19th August 1942. Lieutenant Dancz was 
the commander of the company. He was an extremely corrupt man. With money you could 
achieve everything with him, but without money you had no chance. I never enjoyed any 
favour because I had no money. We were taken to Sárospatak, where we were granted a 
winter leave.  

I went back to Nagykáta on 1st March. From there they took us to Szentkirályszabadja, then 
to Margitta and on 1st May they transported us to Galicia in cattle cars.

We had no problem with the labour service guards, we did not even have to pay attention to 
them while a captain called Kálmán Barla was our commander. He was a great man, he did 
everything for the well-being of the company. This commander was, of course, dismissed on 
25th May. Our new commander was Lieutenant Antal Sallay. He was a horrible man, he 
tortured and beat us. When going uphill he had the horses unharnessed from the cart, he had 
us harnessed instead, and he beat us with a whip. Naturally, the guards also changed 
according to the attitude of the commander. Gyula Dávid sergeant from the supply office was 
the worst of them, he stole everything, so we suffered much from starving.

On 6th October we withdrew to different towns of the Upper Province. We were entrained on 
20th December in Kassa, from there they took us to Balf. The SA took us over there. After 
one month of stay a typhus fever epidemic broke out. The ill people were lying in barns, 
which could not be closed, so they there was extremely cold in them. There was no medical 
treatment or nursing. A great many people died. 

We continued on our way on foot on 28th March. We called at Loretto village on the way. SS 
men had been waiting for us there, who narrowed the road by blocking it up with tanks, so we 
had to run through that, in front of the SS men, in twos. They took away the knapsacks from 
whomever they could and they beat the people with clubs, butts and stakes. They beat some of 
them to death. An SS man got hold of my knapsack, I pushed him away practically 
unconsciously, than another one tripped me, I fell down, but I was not really harmed. The 
next day we had to carry the corpses of the Jews they killed.   

In Grammat Neusiedel we took a train to Mauthausen. We were travelling for six days 
without any food. 

A large number of our people died in Mauthausen. Part of them died of hunger, as starving 
grew to huge dimensions, part of them were killed by different means. A sergeant was the 
biggest murderer, he entertained himself by setting bloodhounds on Jews, which bit those, 
who they jumped at, to death. There was another sergeant who did not entrust the job to dogs, 
but murdered the Jews himself. He appeared among us with a thick club in the most 
unexpected moments and hit where he could. He liked to hit people’s head the most, until the 
eyes and brain spilled. He did not rest until his victim died right before his eyes. We had been 
in such physical and mental conditions by then that we did not need much to die. So, this 
entertainment did not involve exertion, and it was effective, as masses of Jews died.  

Towards the end of April a three-day long march to Günskirchen followed. A lot of people 
died on the way, because those who were not able to march, and those who could march but 
only with difficulties, were shot dead.

Günskirchen was hell. Not only did we starve, but we did not get water either. We suffered 
from thirst, not to mention that there was no possibility to wash ourselves. We lived in filth 
unsuitable even for animals in the barracks, almost twice as many people were crammed there 
as the place would have allowed. We killed, crushed each other to death for a little space. In 
the morning we checked whether the one we had spoken to the preceding night was alive. We 
had to look at them carefully, because the living were not very different from the dead. 

We had one latrine for 17,000 people. Everybody had, of course, diarrhoea and many of us 
could not wait their turn. If somebody was caught at relieving himself at some other place, he 
was shot dead ruthlessly.

Corpses were lying in heaps by the latrine. Later we dug up pits for forty corpses each and we 
buried them there, without, of course, making any kind of note of them.

We would have all died if the American liberation would have come some days later. Luckily, 
the liberating troops arrived on 4th May.

After the liberation I got to the Alpenjager barracks in Wels. They entrained us on 12th July, 
saying they would take us home and indeed we reached Linz. From there we went to Dornach 
where the Russians took us over. They set us forth on foot and we went to Kilb. There I fell 
behind and came home as I could: by train or on top of a train.