The person in question has given us the following information:

When we arrived in Auschwitz and got off the train they separated us from our 
parents still at the station. I could not even say good-bye to them because they had to 
stand on the other side together with the children, so I remained on my own and I 
have never seen them again. They took us into the baths, and everyone had to undress. 
They seized all our belongings except for the shoes, they cut our hair and everybody 
received a grey cloth after the bath. Next, they took us in block 28 of Camp C. We did not 
work here at all. The only thing we did was sit and stand a half-day long because of roll 
calls. This idleness was awful.
We lay on berths in the block: 14 of us on a berth usually without covers. We got very 
little to eat. In the morning we got coffee but not always. We got the loaves of bread during 
the roll call in the afternoon; they were cut either in four or five pieces, and we received 
with it margarine, jam and sausage by turns. 
There were continuous selections when the sick and the weak were taken away, but I never 
learnt where. Dr Mengerle and Drechslerka did the selections. A great number of people 
escaped to other blocks when there were selections in order not to be separated from their 
sisters. If they caught them, they severely punished them. We had to give blood and we ran 
away also this time and came back only after selections. From here we got into Camp A, 
which was horrible for us. We were not allowed to go to the toilet, we could not go to wash, 
and we got food only every second day: a little bread and coffee. Our Blockälteste was very 
wicked; she forbade us even to talk with each other. Finally, one evening they got the order 
to take us all away immediately. For the journey they gave each of us an entire loaf of 
bread, margarine and sausage. They entrained us. There were 50 of us in a freight car, and 
each car got a bucket of coffee, which was meant for three days. That was how we arrived 
in Weisswasser, where right away they assigned us work in an ammunition plant. We 
worked with machines preparing aircraft parts. It was quite a difficult job. 
We worked in two groups, twelve hours a day. In the beginning treatment was tolerable 
in the factory, but later, when we hardly got anything to eat and had no energy to 
work they kept punishing us. As a punishment you had to stand outside in the cold for 
half a night, or you were not given bread for a day. It was terribly cold in the block since 
there was no fuel. Towards the end not even the kitchen had fuel so we got raw turnips for 
lunch. Regarding cleanliness, no one could complain here. We had proper clothes and coats. 
Our underwear was changed; unfortunately, we had no shoes.
A great number of people fell sick because they could not endure hard work but most 
people suffered from hunger. Nevertheless, only two of us died.
On the 5th of May, at the night, I still worked in the factory. The following day, the 
Germans, who had been our masters in the plant, appeared in civilian clothes in the camp 
and told us that we were liberated and could go wherever we wanted. They also invited us 
and insisted we go to their places but we were scared and rejected the invitation. In the 
meantime, the SS women all escaped from the camp. Since we did not know what to do, we 
remained in the camp. In the evening numerous German soldiers passed by the cars in the 
streets. In the neighbouring barracks there were Czech and French prisoners, and they 
suggested we go to live with local Czech citizens. We listened to their advice and the 
Czechs received us warmly. It was lucky that we left the place because the Germans burnt 
down the camp where we lived the same evening. Three days later, the Russians arrived. 
We were happy to see them. Czech partisans managed to capture two SS women. They cut 
their hair off and took them away. This was how we were liberated.
As for my future plans, I would like to go to Palestine as soon as possible.