The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on June 10, 1942 in Monor. We performed earthwork. 

The number of our company was 101/27. In July we were taken to Stanovoie, Russia on the River Don. Here we constructed fortifications. One of the guards, a lance sergeant from Komárom, was beating us with a club all the time to urge us to work, therefore the majority of the company were taken to hospital.  Large part of our food was stolen by the guards, so we starved a lot. 

The Russian attack hit us on January 19, 1943; we retreated to Dnesig. Almost all of us fell ill with typhoid fever; a large hospital was established and the serious cases were transferred there. Eleven brothers-in-arms and I were taken to Kiev as gravely ill.  

After my recovery I was assigned to a newly formed company and I was set off on foot. I was so weak that I was about to collapse every 100 metres. We marched to Berdichev. My foot was frostbitten and I lost a toe. I suffered terribly. 

At Berdichev the company was replaced and we marched further under the supervision of a new guard unit. 

One day I got sick while walking and I collapsed. I was taken to hospital where I was examined by a physician from Debrecen. He diagnosed grave appendicitis. While I was waiting for the operation, the doctor came in and asked: “Where is the Jew?” You could imagine how I felt going under his knife. I asked to be anesthetised, but he said there was no need for that, because it was not going to hurt. It is painful to even think of how much I suffered during the operation.  

I was taken to Skole by a hospital train. I spent a week there and a surgeon examined me. He found the wound purulent and treated me every week, since the wound was continuously discharging pus. It started to heal very slowly after the treatment.  

After my recovery I was assigned to a new company again; for two months we were working next to a marsh and when the Russians got closer, we marched to Warsaw. 

In the spring of 1944 we were put into freight cars in Warsaw and taken back to Hungary, near Szeged. From there we marched towards Mosonmagyaróvár. We had a bearded lance corporal, who shot those who were not strong enough to march. 

We were handed over to the SS at Zürndorf. By the time we got there our number had dropped from 200 to 100. 

In Zürndorf we were entrained and taken to Dachau. Our transport consisted of approximately 2500 people. We spent a month in quarantine, then the skilled workers were singled out and I registered too. This is how I got to Bavaria. 

We were transported to Lautlingen. One part of the transport was assigned to build barracks, while the other was sent to an aircraft factory. I was put on the working unit constructing barracks. The work here equalled death. The whole day I had to carry cement, iron and boards; we were not allowed to stop even for a minute and if somebody was unable to carry his load, he was beaten until he eventually accomplished the task. I knew that if I had to do it any longer, I would not survive. I realised that if I wanted to stay alive, I had to act. 

I was a watchmaker, so I told the capo, a German prisoner, that I would gladly to repair his watch, since it was my profession and I was good at it. While marching home from work he gave me a watch to prepare. I started to work dead tired; since I did not have tools, I used a screwdriver, a penknife and a pair of tweezers. Since it was my life on stake, I did my best to do the job with such primitive instruments. I performed greatly, the watch was repaired.   

The next day the capo brought more watches. During the day I worked at the barrack construction site and in the night I repaired watches. It was a great business for the capo, because all I got was a piece of bread, while he received the whole payment. 

I was complaining to him that I was unable to perform such a hard work and asked him to get me somehow to the aircraft factory. He managed to do so. 

Work was much easier in the factory. The day I got there, the foreman told me that he understood I was a watchmaker. He gave me a watch to repair. Apparently I was widely known, so I wanted to Rapportführer to know me too. I dared to simply take out the foreman’s watch during work and to start to repair it. The Rapportführer noticed it right away and asked me what I was doing and whose watch that was. I told him that it was the foreman’s and I did not know that it was forbidden to repair it during work; if it is, then I would just stop. He went up to the foremen and asked him if I was telling the truth; the foremen said yes. So the Rapportführer told me that it was not a watch store, but an aircraft factory, but “you can finish it; however, I don’t want to see you do that anymore. 

The next day, to my great surprise, he brought a watch over to me. It was in terrible shape; he asked me if I could repair it. I told him I would do my best. The axis of the watch was damaged and I had no spare parts. I was in pain, since I had to repair it: it was about my life. I used a needle as an axis and achieved things that previously I could not even dream of, therefore eventually I repaired the watch. 

I was not working during the night anymore, but only during the day. They allowed me to manufacture instruments and to work on the watches every day. After a while I did not have to go to the factory anymore, but I got a separate room and I repaired watches by the dozen.  

At the end of March, when the frontline was approaching, I was taken to Augsburg where I also repaired watches for the SS.   

When Augsburg was threatened by the frontline as well, the prisoners were transported further. Only 200 of us stayed there and I was the only Jew. I was doing fine and I was treated exceptionally. This was the reward for my courage. 

At the end of April (I do not remember the day clearly) we were liberated by the Americans. 

I worked as a watchmaker for the Americans too. Now I was repairing their watches; I was accommodated at private houses and the Americans provided me with everything I needed. 

I was in Augsburg until September 12 and then came home to Budapest individually.  

For the time being I stay here and as a possibility opens up for emigration, I wish to go to America.