The person in question has given us the following information:

On December 4, 1944 the Arrow Cross showed up in 18 Csanády Street, which was a building protected by the Red Cross. I was taken from here to the Józsefvárosi railway station where I was immediately entrained. Seventy persons were put into a cattle car; gendarmes escorted us. The only way to get something to eat was to exchange our clothes for food with the peasants at the stations where the train stopped. We did not get any water; sometimes the gendarmes threw some snow into the cattle cars and we were sucking on it. We travelled for 12 days and we could not go to the toilet all along the way, therefore almost all of us arrived sick. At Hegyeshalom the Germans took over us and from then on we got water, bread and margarine. We were taken further to Bergen-Belsen. Here we were accommodated in barracks; 400 women from Pest were put into a separate barrack. We slept on bunks without blankets. The rations were as follows: coffee in the morning (warm water), turnip soup at noon with a very small amount of bread and Zulag. We did not work at all, since we were lodged in the special camp where there was no work. The roll calls were going fine, thanks to a relatively sympathetic SS soldier. However we were starving and we were cold. Many prisoners died; there were at least 8-10 corpses laid out at the toilet every day.  We were teeming with lice. 
On April 9 we were told that we would be exchanged for German from the Sudetenland. We were entrained: there were 70 in a freight car again. We, Pest women, were put among Dutch prisoners. We were informed that we would be taken to Theresienstadt. The train was moving there and back; we were standing about at different stations and we even passed through Berlin. We were liberated by the Russians at Tröbitz on April 23. With the approval of the Russians, we stayed in the village at private houses. In the beginning we supplied ourselves, later the Russians provided us with the ingredients and we cooked.  
We were in Tröbitz until about the end of July. I fell ill with typhoid fever here; after recovering I went to Doberlug where we stayed also at private homes. The Russians distributed hot meal here. 
We left for home on September 2 with the official Hungarian transport; we arrived in Budapest via Pilsen, Prague and Bratislava. 
As for my future plans, for now I want to continue my profession and later to go to England.