The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was taken from a protected house to Klauzál Square on December 2, 1944. Before that I had already experience with the Arrow Cross, because they searched my flat on October 26.
They selected the people under 16 and the women above 40, and then we were taken further to Teleki Square where we were separated from the men. I saw 14 people escaping and I wanted to do so as well, but an SS officer was standing too close to me. I heard him saying: “how smart these 14 were to escape in time”. That time I could not understand what he really meant. 
From Teleki Square we were taken to the Józsefváros railway station where we were entrained. We were about 2000 there and 80 of us were put into a freight car. The train departed for Hegyeshalom. There the Germans took over our group and sent us off. We went further by a passenger train. We had plenty of room, but we were horribly cold.
We arrived in Ravensbrück on December 9, 1944. That was a huge camp with about 17,000 prisoners. Unfortunately I was assigned to a tent where there were no beds and we had to lie on the stone floor. This was not so tragic in the first two days, because our belongings had not been taken away yet, therefore we could lay coats and other warm clothes on the floor, and we could cover ourselves with clothes as well. However, two days later we were taken to the bath where we had an ice-cold shower and we were given summer dresses, nothing else. I hoped I would be taken into a block afterwards, but unfortunately I was taken back into the tent. Our Polish fellow prisoners treated us very badly. For instance, they did not let us go out to the toilet. One can imagine what it meant. Instead, they put buckets into the tents and we had to stand in line in order to relieve ourselves. It was so terrible. Plenty of us became mad. Almost everybody got ill with diarrhoea. Within a short time all of us were infested with lice, because we hardly had any chance to wash ourselves. The tent was split into two parts ten days later. They put in three-level beds and three or four of us were given one such bed. It seemed like Paradise if compared to our situation before, when we were lying on the bare floor in summer clothes without any blankets. However, the food was very little, but still too much to starve to death.
We had to line up for roll call every morning from 3 to 7. The principle was that dead people cannot turn out for roll call, but the ill should. Therefore the ill were also chased out of the tents in the cold weather. Every minute some of them collapsed. I suffered very much, especially because I was pregnant.
One hundred fifty of us were taken to Freiburg with a transport on January 18, 1945. Then we were finally given a coat, but despite that we almost froze to death in the freight cars. We got provisions for the journey. We arrived in Freiburg on January 27, but we stayed only for three weeks, because the Russians were approaching and we were taken further to a men’s camp named Trautenau. From that place we were taken to Leipzig by train. There I was liberated at the end of April 1945 when the English troops marched in. The English took a good care of me. I stayed in Leipzig until June and I gave birth to my child there.
I am a Zionist and I am going to immigrate to Palestine.