The person in question has given us the following information:

We stayed in the ghetto of Munkács for 4 weeks and in the brickyard for one week. When 
they took us away from the ghetto everybody was very lethargic because they had always 
promised that we would stay in the ghetto once and for all. On the way the policemen beat 
the people with whips until they bled. When my elderly father collapsed and he could 
not march any further, a policeman shouted at me not to be standing there, saying: “The 
old guy can die alone just as well”. They whipped our 85-year-old mother until she went 
along the whole way to the brickyard and then to Auschwitz, where the crematorium 
was waiting for her anyway. Would it not have been easier to let her die here? 

75 of us were crammed in a cattle car on the way. In our cattle car, 2 women gave birth on the 
first night. Although we had warned the guards in advance that there would be deliveries, they 
did not allow us even to light a lamp. There were 34 people of our family travelling in the 
cattle car and only 11 of us survived. 
When we arrived, we were separated from everybody else. We were taken to the bath and 
then we were taken completely naked in front of SS men, who stripped us. From there they 
took us to a hall, where we received prisoner’s clothes, then we got to the camp. 
13 of us slept on a berth, so we could not even move. We did not work, but we starved and 
suffered a lot. We got up at 3 o’clock at dawn and then we were lining up for roll call for 
hours. If only one person was missing all 30,000 were punished. We also suffered much from 
the weather. 
We were standing in sweltering heat and a number of people died from sunstroke, while 
it was so cold in the evenings that a large number of us got cold, dressed in light clothes 
and with bare heads; they got pneumonia and tuberculosis. There was no medicine, 
diarrhoea was raging and that claimed victims too. 
There were 1,000 women in our block and we were given 50 pots of food. We did not have 
even a spoon. Plenty of people had to eat from one pot and we did not know how to eat even 
that little poor food we received. 
We were taken to Unterlüss with a transport of labourers. We had to do very hard work there: 
we built a road and cut down a forest; a lot of people worked in an ammunition factory. We 
received very little food and the treatment was cruel. The Lagerführer gave us 25 strokes for 
the smallest offence. Such things as warning people in advance did not exist there. They came 
with unbending rigour right away and they were happy to see us cry and suffer. 
We worked in one single thin dress in terrible cold, in the harshest winter. They searched us 
everywhere everyday and on whom they noticed the thinnest rag under the dress was 
punished with deprivation of food and beating.
When Allied troops were approaching, the SS escaped and the Wehrmacht took over. They 
took us to the death camp in Bergen-Belsen. That could only be called a death camp and 
nothing else. We were not given even a bite of bread; all our food was half a litre of soup a 
day. There were people who had been suffering there for months and they received only that 
much throughout the whole time. People died from hunger according to their strength, slowly 
or quickly one after the other. If the liberation had come 2 weeks later, they are not likely too 
have found any more people alive there. Meanwhile, typhus was raging too. The heaps of 
cadavers grew bigger and bigger every day and we had to clear them away. We were not 
allowed even to put on gloves for this work and there was no water to wash with. The 
English liberated us on 15th April. We were and still are unspeakably grateful to them for 
that.