The person in question has given us the following information: 

The Jewish laws affected me first in 1940. I owned a grocery store and it was taken away; more precisely I was not appointed to sell certain goods.
I started my labour service in 1940,in Jászberény. Nothing special happened to me and I got discharged in November 1940.
I was called up again in February 1942 in Jászberény. I served there until December. We worked in an airfield in Kecskemét, which was very hard work. They treated us relatively well; we had some money and could supply ourselves with food.
On May 17, 1944, I had to report again in Jászberény. I was sent to Kecskemét again, then I was taken to Szolnok. As a railway construction company, we built railways and bridges on the Budapest-Szolnok line. The treatment was worse there, because it was a German company and they treated us worse. On November 28, 1944 we were taken to the Józsefváros railway station and were entrained. Seventy-five to eighty of us were put into a freight car. We were travelling for four days to Sopron, without any food or water, under the escort of Hungarian gendarmes and soldiers. From Sopron they took us to Fertőrákos where we were building fortifications. The food was very bad and we could hardly sleep, because we were outdoors even in December. On December 6, for instance, the roads were already 50 centimetres deep in snow, and 10 centimetres of snow covered our blankets in the morning. My feet got frozen and all of us became frostbitten. We stayed there from December 1 to March 25. There were sicknesses and deaths: out of 104, 70 people died, and only 34 of us survived. We were treated badly. We got two decilitres of coffee in the morning, and bean or cabbage soup and 30 decagrams of bread in the evening. That was all for a day and for 12 hours of work. Sometimes they beat us up. Along the way the SA men were beating the people. We departed on March 25 and before that the SS shot dead the ill, who stayed behind.
As we were marching to Mauthausen and passing through towns, the SS men shot people by the hundreds. We departed without any provisions. When we were going through San Margareta and Loretto, the SS were shooting prisoners on their own initiative and killed more than one hundred people. I received a blow in my eyes, from which I suffered for three weeks.
When we arrived in Mauthausen, our first impression was very bad. We did not have a proper sleeping place, because 2000 people were lodged in a room, which could normally hold only 500. Our food supply was coffee, 150 grams of bread and some turnip soup per day. We spent three weeks there. They did not let us work, but the SS men treated us very badly: they always beat us. There were 150-200 deaths every day. Most of them died of starvation, weakness and typhus. However, we had a chance to wash ourselves. I could see a lot of dead people who had been shot in the nape of the neck. There was a sergeant, who killed a lot of people.
We were set off on foot for Göttenburg, near Wels. We were walking 48 hours without any food. Those who felt ill were shot in the nape of the neck. There were hundreds of them. If someone stepped out of the line to pick up a snail or some grass, he was shot dead. On the third day we arrived in Göttenburg. We did not get any food even on that day. The following day, however, we were given coffee and three decilitres of soup in the afternoon. The food supply was even worse, if it is possible at all, than in Mauthausen. There were more deaths: about 400 every day. I was forced to bury dead bodies too. They were hitting me with whips and were constantly threatening me with a revolver. A lot of my brothers-in-arms were indeed shot dead. We had to carry the bodies some 500 metres away in the forest; four of us carried one body. Out of the four, at least two were usually very weak, therefore it was a very hard work. Those who could not endure this work were also shot dead. Our brothers-in-arms dug a hole and we dragged or threw the bodies into it. They had been completely undressed and deprived of everything before passed on to us. We were waiting for the liberation badly. If it had lasted one or two days longer, we would have not survived either.
The Americans liberated us on May 5, 1945. From that time on we were doing well. From there we were taken to Hörsching and I came home from there.
The level of antisemitism has been always high in Budapest.  For instance, it happened to me in a Nagytétény shop that I, who showed my deportee card, was charged 14 pengős for the same thing that cost 10 for a soldier, who showed his documents. Then I could see what the situation really was here.