The person in question has given us the following information:

Last year in April, one morning, gendarmes appeared in our flat and ordered us to get 
packed and start going to the ghetto. We could carry 60 kilos of luggage and food each. 
While we were walking gendarmes were beating us. I also remember the name of one of the 
gendarme sergeants: he was called Kovács. In the ghetto, women had to do some cleaning 
jobs for the gendarmes, while men swept the ground of the streets. We were lodged in 
houses but we lay on the floor because there were no beds. Four weeks later, they entrained 
us and took us to Auschwitz. There were 80-100 people crammed into a freight car, so we 
could hardly move. There was neither water nor any opportunity for the toilet. At one of the 
stations my elder brother got off to get water. The SS started shooting at him and throwing 
stones at him, and he got injured also. After four days and nights of indescribable suffering 
we arrived in Auschwitz. For six weeks there was no work to do, later, they assigned me 
work in a kommando working outside. We dug trenches in light garments, without 
shoes, most of us completely bareheaded, in the open, in the middle of the winter. 
While we were working the SS kept encouraging their great hounds to attack us, and 
they bit us badly. 6 weeks later I got into the infirmary as a nurse. The camp where I had 
to work was called “Mexico.” There were great numbers of sick people here, mostly with 
diarrhoea, most of them died. All patients from the so-called Czech camp and Camp C were 
carried here, into the “Mexican” camp. In the evenings trucks with red crosses appeared, 
and the sick were put on them naked and they were carried directly into the crematorium. 
Everyone who had a single rash, but even patients who did not lie in bed, had to face this 
fate. Dr Mengele kept selecting them. There were also pregnant women among them, 
but a few were saved from the crematorium since the doctors were Jews and they 
operated on some of them. I stayed here for around 7 months before they forced us to start 
walking towards Ravensbrück. We walked for 8 days and nights, most of us without shoes, 
in the greatest cold, in light garments. We got a little bread and some canned food for the 
journey. Very many of us died from hunger, and the people who fell behind were shot. We 
did not work in Ravensbrück, we were closed in a block for 3 weeks, because there was a 
block curfew. We could only go to the toilet in small, supervised groups. There were 
around 6,000 women in this camp. We suffered very much from hunger because we hardly 
got a mouthful of bread for a day. We had no access to water at all, and as a result, all of us 
got lice, and typhus started to spread. Three weeks later, we went on travelling by trucks to 
Retzow, where we worked on an airport. We had to carry heavy stones, and we had to bring 
the planes into the woods to hide them. Hard work caused us much suffering, and the 
Aufseherin who guarded us harassed us a great deal. We worked 12 hours a day, having 
100 grams of bread as daily rations. People were starving and numerous died of exhaustion.

When Russian troops got closer they marched us to Hamburg. On the way, I managed to get 
into a forest with two of my companions. Russian troops found us there and liberated us. 
With their help I came to Budapest with a Czech transport.

As far as my future plans are concerned, I would very much like to emigrate to Palestine as 
soon as possible.