The person in question has given us the following information:

In February 1944, I visited relatives in Munkács and I was still there when the ghetto was 
being made. My father was an architect. We lived in our own house on a good middle class 
level. The 20th of April, some streets were designated as the ghetto and also my uncle’s flat 
became part of it. 140 of us lived in (the flats of) this courtyard, in the house of the brick 
factory owner Sajovics. They frequently searched our flats and carried away all valuable 
objects. Men had to go out to work regularly, women only temporarily. We also had a soup 
kitchen. I do not know of anyone who escaped. One Saturday, when men were taken for work 
gendarmes and the SS started shooting around, and several people died. We stayed for four 
weeks in the ghetto of the town (around 15,000 Jews lived here) before they moved us into 
the brick factory. I will always remember the march to the factory. They chased us with clubs, 
they beat us, and beat up terribly my uncle, the factory owner Sajovics, who used to take 
injections and medicine against his serious heart disease. Before entrainment they chased us 
onto the fields and seized our remaining valuables but if you had two dresses they would also 
take one of them claiming that anyhow we would not need them, but they did not touch the 
food. We travelled together with our uncle in the third transport, 70 of us in each freight car. 
They gave us water and buckets for the toilet. They opened the cars in Kassa, where German 
soldiers of the Wehrmacht replaced gendarmes and took charge of the train.
They reassured us that we would have good Hungarian goulash on the place where we 
were heading. After three days travel we arrived in Auschwitz during the night. We looked 
out of train and saw a horrible view. The sky was completely red, and we thought they 
would bring us directly in the fire. Elderly people said a death prayer and farewell. 
Prisoners opened the freight cars and reassured us that we were going to have a good life. We 
got off. After two steps the SS sent men and women to different sides, they grouped 
separately the old, the sick and the healthy who were fit for work. The old and the sick, as we 
heard later, were put in gas chambers the same day. We were led into the baths where we had 
to undress completely. They grabbed my nice camelhair coat, and dressed us entirely in frieze. 
I got a black shirt. I asked for another one instead but got two slaps so big that I could see 
stars. I had a long muslin dress. Bald-headed I looked awfully. After disinfection we had to 
line up five in a row and they led us into the lager of gipsies still at night. There were 1,000 of 
us in a block, and 12 of us on a bunk. There was hardly enough space for sitting not to 
mention lying. One did not leave space for the other; we had to stay all on our sides and if 
someone moved all the others had to move the same way. Nights were cold and we were cold, 
we shivered. We were woken already at 5 am and were sent to line up for roll call although 
we had no idea what it meant. They lined us up five in a row, then we had to stand there 
waiting. Already an hour had passed and we were still waiting there. It was dawning, it started 
spitting, we were cold and we believed it was the end. Everyone cried. They brought coffee in 
a wooden vat. Naturally, there were no mugs or spoons; everyone had to drink from the vat, 
one after the other. For six weeks I did not even taste the soup. For six weeks we did not 
work. Afterwards, they moved us in Lager C, which was decidedly an extermination camp. 
We lived under similar circumstances also here. Curfews were frequent. We could go to the 
toilet only when we were ordered; it was awful! They kept giving us slaps; we could not 
wash, we could not even see water. We had water only once a day. They assigned me work in 
the kitchen. Although we had to work a lot and I worked with difficulties there was food here, 
and I could also help my friends and acquaintances, which cost me some slaps. We had to do 
“sport” also in the kitchen. It meant that the SS chased us with clubs around the kitchen and 
the pool, which was in front of the kitchen while we had to hold 15 kilos heavy stones in the 
hands, and had to lie down every once in a while and also to creep. It was the punishment for 
stealing food. 

I stayed here until the 1st of November, when they liquidated lager C and everyone was 
transferred into lager A, where we were lodged in a similar block. They selected me into 
various kommandos: into the "Aussenkommando" and the "Scheisskommando". The latter 
was awful. We had to walk 5 kilometres far from the camp where we had to push wagons in a 
mud as high as your knees. It was horrible. On these days I believed I would not endure, but 
still I had to go through it. Later, I had to carry coal in another kommando. They chased us 
out of the block at 3 am and we returned at 6 pm, when we had to report for roll call that 
lasted till 7.30, and we got soup and bread only afterwards. Forty of us drew a wagon. If 
someone gave up the SS would incite their wolfhounds against her. I was so distressed that I 
went to an SS-man and asked him to shoot me. He said it would be a shame to “waist a 
bullet.” I stayed here only around ten days but my life was hell.

Lager A was around 500 metres from the crematorium. We often saw a transport of people 
entering it but unfortunately never anyone returning from the place. If someone tried to find 
out what happened to them and asked for example SS-men or women in the kitchen, with 
whom we had good relations, they honestly told us that these unfortunate were sent into gas 
chamber. You could not, or rather it was not advisable to report sick because the sick were 
also killed in gas chamber.

In September and October, selections were the order of the day. Dr Mengele entered the lager 
with the mission to do in thousand people that day. He went into a block, ordered a roll call 
and sent anyone in gas chamber whose face he disliked. If sisters were standing next to each 
other or mothers next to their daughters he would separate them. It was his special 
amusement. The only thing that mattered was to cause more pain. If he saw a remarkably 
beautiful face he would immediately send the person in gas chamber; if he found a 
pimple or some minor problem he would surely select the person in question. Undressed 
women had to pass nude in front of him in the sauna and he delighted in pointing with 
his finger to the right or to the left. If someone begged him to let her stay with her sister 
or mother he ensured the person with an ironic smile that they would meet up again 
when the other one returned in the evening.

The 23rd of November, they selected me into a transport of labourers and they took away 300 
women: 250 Polish and 50 Slovakian women. I was the only Hungarian among them. The 
journey lasted for a week and there were 65 of us in a freight car. We set off by night with a 
loaf of bread, double portions of Wurst and 50 grams of margarine. Two Wehrmacht soldiers 
escorted us. One of them, who was senior, got off at every station to obtain whatever he could 
for our part: hot coffee, turnips, etc. During the last day we had nothing to eat. They gave us 
water at stations. 
We arrived in Lippstadt, where I had to work for a factory where there were already 500 
Hungarian women working. It produced cartridges. We worked 12 hours a day swapping day 
and night shifts. Rations were made up of a plate of soup, Zulag, and 150 grams of bread. We 
were always hungry and it was a hard work. We carried 40-50 kilos heavy boxes full of 
cartridges, 20-30 pieces a day. Masters were strict and rushed us. Women supervisors were 
unbearable. If they saw anyone staying idle for five minutes they would right away give her 
slaps and chase her back to work. We suffered really a lot, particularly during night shifts. 
They also often bombed the area and we beseeched God that our death was caused by an 
English bomb rather than by a German from the SSÁ.

The first evening of Easter they evacuated the lager and we were forced to walk 60 
kilometres. We crossed woods and walked on stones barefoot. We were footsore, our feet bled 
but we easily resisted pain because we felt we were on the path that led to liberation. We 
walked for two days continuously chased, hurried and beaten. We were trailed by Americans 
everywhere, roads were already closed and they did not know where to go. The first of April, 
finally American troops liberated us; the SS had escaped. We were in the village of Kaunitz. 
Americans lodged us in abandoned German flats and secured a good life for us. I remained in 
this village till the middle of July, when I left with a Czech transport. The first of August, I 
arrived in Prague, from where I returned to Budapest via Pozsony.

My future plans: At the moment I go to Kassa. My only brother is in America, and I would 
like to join him.