The person in question has given us the following information:

I was drafted for the labour service company in Jászberény on 17th April 1944. From there they 
took us to Kerekudvarpuszta, which lies about 4 kilometres from there. We stayed there till 10th 
June. We did not work there. In that period we did not do anything apart from route marches. On 
10th June they entrained us and took us to Bor. We spent 4 days there, then they formed smaller 
groups of us and housed us in small camps. I, together with about 500 other people got to 
Lazanicza, 70 kilometres from Bor. We did relatively well there, we lived at peasants’ houses and 
our work was railway building. The provisions were sufficient, the work was not hard, and we were 
treated so well that, for example, Warrant Officer Halász, who was the commander of company, 
collected a smaller group in case things had turned better. So, if partisans had arrived, we would 
have gone to the Serbians. 
When he was forced to impose punishment, he did even that in the most humane and correct way. 
On 30th August when we came back from work they set us off back towards Bor, without any 
particular prior event. We arrived in Bor on 3rd September and stayed there till 17th. Then they set 
4,000 of us off towards Hungary, according to what our officers said, to be discharged there. As far 
as I know, 3,000 people stayed there, waiting to be set forth at a later date. We received a loaf of 
bread weighing 370 grams and a tin of food. They emphasized that we would not get any more 
food until we arrive in Belgrade, so we had to economize it accordingly. During our journey, once 
we got rich food from the Germans in a small town called Kripotin, but that was the only official 
food supply on the way. We crossed the Hungarian border at Pancsova on 30th September. Since 
we had not received any food, the whole company had arrived starved and overtired in Hungary. 
We hoped that our conditions would turn better but that did not happen and we continued marching 
to Cservenka still in the simplest circumstances. In Cservenka, on the morning of 8th October we 
noticed that the Hungarian labour service guards were leaving from the brickyard where we stayed 
and we got German SS guards instead. Those guards tried to calm us saying that it had only been a 
simple guard-mounting that would last for hours only, but around noon we already saw that the 
Germans had taken over the control. They divided us into two groups. One of the groups, in which 
I was put, was set off. The other group was left there and it was only later that we heard about what 
happened in Cservenka. Our march was also terrible, hundreds of people were shot dead between 
Újszivác and Ószivác without the smallest reason, so by the time we arrived in Zombor, the 
company was strongly decimated. In Zombor we got an Oberscharführer who was quite humane, he 
brought us to Mohács in a way that the march was free from atrocities. It was in Mohács that we 
learned about that Szálasi’s government had come into power and that the Hungarian labour service 
guards took us over form the Germans. We hoped that our lives would get much better, but the 
Hungarian guards were even worse and more cruel than the Germans. After some days that we 
spent in Mohács they put us on a train and took us to Szentkirályszabadja. That was the only part of 
our journeys where we did not go on foot ever since we had started from Bor. We stayed in 
Szentkirályszabadja for a week and from there we went to Hegyeshalom, all he time on foot. We 
crossed the Hungarian border on 10th November. We went to Zurndorf guarded by SS men. There 
we drew food supplies from the Germans and then they put us on a train and took us to Ohrdruf. I 
was not able to work any more, although I had worked only for two days, so on 29th November I 
managed to go to hospital, referring to an gastric ulcer which had been operated in the past. It 
means that we were living in a stable, on concrete floor, without blankets and straw, but also 
without work. On 11th January they formed a transport from us and took us to Buchenwald, where 
I got to a so called “Schonungsbarak”. I stayed there up till 7th April. I would like to mention that 
the Blockführer was a young Hungarian man from the Upper Province called Zoltán Weisz, who 
treated us in a very correct and fair way. On 6th April we went to have lunch, but they did not 
allow us to go back to the barracks any more. They chased us to the cattle cars, they entrained us 
and we started towards an unknown destination. 107 people were crammed in a cattle car, so not 
only was it impossible to sit down or lie down, but there was no room for standing either. Our 
journey was the most horrible that one can imagine. They gave us 100 grams of bread four times 
and some water twice during the journey which was 21 days long. When we got out of the cattle 
cars on 28th April only 61 of us were alive. The others were either beaten to death or shot dead, or 
they died of complete exhaustion. As for me, they knocked three of my teeth out and there are two 
wounds above my eye which were caused by a butt and which were sown with seven stitches. It 
was raining when we got out of the cattle car. We did not care the least about the possible 
consequences, we fell on the puddles to drink like animals, since we felt hunger no more. We 
arrived in Dachau, where I got into hospital with serious diarrhoea. I was very seriously ill for two 
weeks but thank to the very attentive and really generous care of the Americans, due to the 
appropriate medicine, transfusion and substantial nutrition I managed to recover completely. They 
weighed me on the day of the liberation, when, according to the doctor’s certification I was 40 
kilos. My weight reached 71 kilos by 6th September. On 17th July they transported us to Kempten, 
a small town which lies 30 kilometres from the Swiss border; there I was taken to hospital again. 
Our circumstances were quite nice, we found even Hungarian physicians there. On 1st September a 
physician, Dr János Rotschild, head of ward told me that it was possible for Hungarian Jews to 
travel home from Munich. We tried to get a car, but Dr. Jeimann, hospital superintendent was 
willing to give us a car only without fuel. He did not give us his formal agreement to our leaving. 
“Since I am not a policeman, you may escape if you wish”, he said. Indeed, I escaped together with 
29 people from the hospital at 5 o’clock in the morning on 7th September. We bought some petrol, 
we rent a car and got to Munich, where they put us up in garrison Funk. After some days of stay, 
they set us off with a Czech transport and we got to Pilsen. From Pilsen we started again after a 48 
hours’ stay and arrived in Budapest on 22nd September.