The person in question has given us the following information:

The 25th of November 1942, I was drafted for labour service in K?szeg, where we 
got a two weeks long military training. The number of the company was 103/4, and 
comprised of 205 people. Two weeks later, we went to work at the railway station 
The 25th of November 1942, I was drafted for labour service in K?szeg, where we 
got a two weeks long military training. The number of the company was 103/4, and 
comprised of 205 people. Two weeks later, we went to work at the railway station 
in the same town. 
The 1st of May, we were transferred to Inota to build barracks and prepare saps. 
From here we got to Székesfehérvár.   
The 1st of June, we got the order to move to Serbia, to Bor. The 1st of August 
they entrained us in Ercsi and we arrived in Bor four days later. Till the 6th 
of October, we constructed rails in a mine. We lived in Camp "Berlin." 
In November 1943, they took us to a place close to Bor, where we went on 
constructing rails. A few weeks later we returned to Bor. There were 100 of us 
in a group and were now used for building barracks. Officers were Wehrmacht 
soldiers. We worked here till the 16th of September, 1944. 
The first head of company was Gusztáv Schaffer. He was quite a good man; if we 
were searched he tried to take the edge of troubles. At Christmas of 1943, he 
was replaced by Lieutenant Colonel Marányi. People started to be trussed up. In 
one case, ten comrades escaped out of whom two were captured. On the order of 
Marányi Corporal Mogyorosi right away executed them claiming that they did not 
merit returning into Hungary. The Hungarian National Jewish Aid Action sent us 
packs. On order of officers the privates selected and grabbed the better items 
and left us only those of poorer quality. 
At the end of September 1944, 3500 of us started off in the direction of 
Hungary, or at least that was what they told us. We received three quarters of a 
loaf of bread and 100 grams of jam for the trip. We were happy to start back 
home after two years service. After 80 kilometres the privates shot a comrade 
because he ran into a house to get some food. Serbian population was always very 
nice to us, they kept scattering food in our way. Before we arrived to 
Szenttamás our lieutenant told us to look for food in the village since he 
believed the village had been evacuated. We wanted to enter a house when the 
privates shot the first two of us claiming we were going to plunder. We could 
not enter, whereas privates entered, killed a pig and cooked it for themselves, 
while we were standing outside hungry like wolves feeling the good smell of food 
that was coming out. 
The 5th of October, we arrived to Cservenka, where we had a rest in a house for 
the night and were supposed to continue our walk the day after. During the night 
at 2 am we were woken up. The SS surrounded the building where we slept. This 
was when they started to take away people in groups of twenties, claiming that 
they took them for work and would very soon give them also to eat. Privates 
handed us over entirely to the ethnic Germans of Cservenka. That night there was 
an enormous bloodbath, a great number of our companions were killed, and all of 
them were buried in a pit. Around dawn the bloodbath was finished. Someone at 5 
am cried in the house and asked for our valuables, claiming that we would not 
need them anyway but we had already nothing. 
The day after at 5:30 am there was a roll call. They counted us and we were sure 
to end up where the others did. We set off; there were only 1500 of us. We 
walked towards Zombor. We suffered a lot on the way since they were brutal with 
us: people were shot one after the other. If there was a puddle on the road we 
had to get off road; if someone fell behind he was shot. It was now the SS 
consisting of ethnic Germans who escorted us, privates remained in Cservenka. 
One evening we had a rest in a homestead. Young ethnic German boys picked 20 of 
our comrades and started to beat them. They already crushed the heads of 20, and 
were about to continue with the other 20 when an SS officer stepped in and did 
not let them be assaulted. He said that it would do for now. 
Before we arrived in Zombor we had another rest. In the evening we heard another 
great series of shootings, our number decreased again. In Zombor they handed us 
over to another SS squad. There was a 2nd lieutenant among them who prohibited 
them to touch us in any form; he even shared his provisions with us.
When we arrived to Baja other SS soldiers of a more mature age took charge of 
us. They threw some carrots to us as food, while they ate the most exquisite 
meals next to us. At 8 pm they took us into the Jewish cemetery of Baja where 
they wanted to keep us for the night but a lieutenant colonel intervened. He 
gave a long talk and said they were going to bring us to an island of Baja, 
where Hungarians would take charge of us and would arrange for our journey home. 
We spent the night in a house, and locals brought food to us. We stayed there 
till the 15th of October. 
The day after, we crossed the Danube at Baja and they took us to 
Szentkirályszabadja where the privates who had guarded us earlier received us. 
They gave us bread and lard and the day after we started to work building 
underground bunkers.   
The 8th of November, we got the order to go to work for a sugar plant. We were 
led through the whole country towards Hegyeshalom, where they handed us over to 
the SS, which entrained us. After a long time this was the first occasion that 
we got warm food. We kept a carrot each for future days, while the SS said to 
throw them away, since the Germans have enough food to take care of us. Every 
day we received a portion of bread (8-10 of us shared a loaf) and margarine. 
From Zürndorf a part of the company continued by coaches another part in freight 
cars and only four of us travelled on the luggage-rack. By the 12th of November, 
we arrived in Flossenburg. The next day we were disinfected, then we stayed in 
quarantine for 3 weeks. 
The camp was 2 kilometres far from the railway station at the border of a forest 
in a nice neat place. Fischer Keresztes, who had been deported from Hungary, 
worked in the office. He kept consoling us and told us to have patience: it 
would not last for long. A fence conducting high voltage electricity enclosed 
each block. We, the people coming from Bor, stayed in blocks no. 21 and 24. We 
got the prisoner clothing and wore a number. We stayed here till the 6th of 
December. 
We left Flossenburg for Herzburg, where they selected us according to 
professions and three days later we went to work. We built an underground 
factory in a hillside. It was meant to be a great plant producing weapons. I had 
a place in the workshop and worked at the side of civilian masters. Four weeks 
later, my toes got frozen and all my leg got swollen. I got into the infirmary, 
where I lay in bed till the 22nd of April. 
In the middle of April, the area started to be heavily bombed, so they took us 
to Dachau, where we had a very decent Blockältester. I got into the infirmary 
there also, where I stayed till the 27th of April. The 24th of April we received 
a pack from the Red Cross; as a consequence our condition got much better. The 
27th of April, there was a roll call, and the same night we set off in the 
direction of the mountains of Tirol, to Schwanitz, where the SS did not know 
what to do with us. We spent a night in the mountains before they took us to the 
railway station, put us into two freight cars and we departed towards 
Mittenwald. On the way, we got seriously bombed. We got off and went on walking. 
We arrived to a big lake, where there were machineguns already set up. We 
believed they were going to execute us. In the evening, SS guards disappeared 
and Americans liberated us the same night. 
We got liberated the 1st of May 1945. We left the place still during the night 
and went into the town of Mittenwald, where we spent the night in a stall. In 
the morning, Americans started to look after us and put us up in the school of 
Mittenwald. We were very weak and many passed away also after the liberation. 
Two months later, we moved to Garmisch, where we spent a week; later, we went to 
Oberammergau, and stayed there until the first of September. 
We left for Feldafing, where a week later we obtained individual permits to 
travel home. We set off towards Munich, Pozsony and Hungary.