The persons in question unanimously and complementarily have given us the following information: 

There were only two Jewish families living in Csornok, while in Komjáti there were 15. They were mainly well-to-do merchants.  

Two weeks after the German occupation we were taken to the Nagysurány ghetto. We were allowed to carry luggage weighing 50 kilograms per person. The ghetto was set up in the village; we spent only one and a half weeks here. The father of the above mentioned Ilona Deutsch was summoned to the parish hall and the Gestapo men beat him up severely. There was a house search every day; men and women were dragged away to perform agricultural work. We did not believe we would be deported. The members of the Jewish Council were König, Dr Krausz and others; we cannot bring up anything against them.  

One morning an order arrived; the next dawn gendarmes entered the houses at 4:30 am. We had to pack up quickly, but we were assured that it was not worth taking anything with us, since we would not be coming back and all of our belongings would be taken away anyway.  We were entrained in the afternoon: 50 people in one cattle car. The train stopped at Komárom and we lingered for a week in the Monostor fortress. Eighty-five people were squeezed into one car; we got two buckets: one for water and the other for the purpose of a WC. Here we still thought that we would be taken only to work. The cars were opened first at Kassa and the train was taken over by the Germans here.  

After three days of travel we arrived in Auschwitz in the evening of June 15. After getting off we were selected and taken to the disinfection room. Here our hair was cut, our clothes were taken away and in exchange we were given grey prisoner’s uniform. We were taken to the Gypsy camp where we spent three days, but during the whole time we saw no sign of water whatsoever. From here we were taken away and after two days of travel we arrived in Krakow. We got one-fourth of a loaf of bread and some Zulag for the journey. After arrival 400 of us were put into one block and four of us slept on a bunk. We performed heavy work here in a quarry; the guards beat us, the rations were very small and there were two roll calls a day. There used to be a crematorium in Krakow, but when we were there, the corpses were burnt in ditches, since the crematorium was out of order.  

By the end of August we were transported back to Auschwitz where we spent six weeks. During this time we performed occasional work then we were taken with a worker’s transport to Kratzau. We worked 12 hours a day in a factory here. Our food supply and accommodation was more normal: only two of us slept on one bed. We were here until the liberation by the Russians on May 9. We spent an additional few weeks in the city and came to Budapest with the Czech transport via Prague.