The person in question has given us the following information: 

My father became 75% disabled in the First World War, thus he was, under the terms of the Jewish 
Law, exempt. On this basis, I was also exempt from the Jewish Law. So, I was allowed to stay in 
my flat and I could keep my position.   

On 17th October 1944 my neighbour, escorted by two patrols with bayonets, appeared in my flat. 
They checked my identity and took me with them immediately. They did not even give me time to 
dress up properly; I had to go with them dressed as I was at home, without stockings. They escorted 
me along with fixed bayonets to the Danube at Kelenföld. There we found a group of 60-70 men 
and women. The people were frightened to death, even men fainted one after the other. This is one 
of my most terrible memories. I was taken to a warrant officer with an Arrow Cross armband, who 
asked the sergeant escorting me what my sin was. He answered with noble simplicity: “Jew.” 
Following the order of the warrant officer, the two patrols left and I was taken to the 
aforementioned group. The people were guessing, when we would be pushed into the Danube. That 
happened early in the morning and we were standing there till the afternoon, when a Hungarian 
soldier arrived with the order that whole group had to be taken to the Gestapo on Sváb Hill. We set 
off, followed by Arrow Cross Men and soldiers, while people with guns pointing at us were 
standing on both sides of the row. We arrived at Pasaréti Road, when a big air raid reached us. 
During the air raid we were in an open field. We arrived at the Arrow Cross house at 10 Pasaréti 
Road, late in the afternoon. Our guards asked what to do with us, whether to make us continue our 
way or not. The answer was that they could just as well finish us off there in Pasaréti Road. Then 
they made us sit down in front of the house and took our money. They listed how much money they 
took from each one of us by name, but I noticed that they put down only one tenth of the sum they 
robbed from us. On the way beforehand, they had already taken even our wedding rings. Many old 
people were there in the group, who, poor things, could not march. Their baggage was put on a 
truck that followed us, but that baggage they never saw again. 

We were sitting in front of the Arrow Cross house till late in the evening waiting for another 
telephone call. Meanwhile somebody cried out in the dark: “Is the one with the machine gun here 
yet?” That made the people faint from terror again. Then they set us off again and lead us towards 
the bank of the Danube at Margit Bridge. The march late at night through the dark, muddy city was 
horrible. We arrived at a yellow star house on the corner of Lehel Street and Bulcsú Street. We 
spent half of the night sitting in front of the house and, as my fellows told me, they had not eaten 
anything for two days. The people living on the first and second floors of the house were moved to 
the third floor within three minutes and we were put in the emptied flats. As we got to know later, 
the quick moving was not due to the soldiers and Arrow Cross men escorting us, but to a sergeant 
coming with us, whom we could not see in the dark. The sergeant calmed us and told us to make 
ourselves as comfortable as possible. Some minutes later they began to take people, especially 
young girls, away. Panic set in again, but the sergeant reappeared, locked us up and calmed us 
down. He said that nobody could leave any more and that he would not leave us until we all went to 
sleep. There was silence till the morning, but then we got excited again since we did not know what 
was going to happen to us. We knew that we could not stay there. Our benefactor sergeant came 
again and promised that he would arrange that we all could to go home the same day.  
Unfortunately after what had happened before we could not believe him, but he calmed us again 
and again. He went to garrison Mária Terézia and told the soldiers to guard us. We awaited him 
back with understandable excitement and he did arrive early in the morning. It seemed that he had 
not succeeded in doing it, but he calmed us again saying that everybody would be able to go home, 
just maybe later. He had acquired the permission for us, according to which every one of us could 
go home unharmed. He escorted people home by groups of houses.
Naturally, I did not dare to go home after all these and meanwhile my flat had been robbed out 
anyway. In the hour of common peril, I made friends with two women companions and I moved to 
them.