The person in question has given us the following information:

On November 10, 1944 the women between 16 and 40, including me, were taken away from the yellow star house I stayed in. My father and my only brother had been dragged away earlier, and my two other brothers died in labour service already in 1942.
We were taken to the brickyard in Óbuda where they took away all of our belongings and set us off for Zürndorf. The journey lasted two weeks. We got only a plain soup and 100-150 grams of bread every third day. If we asked the locals for water, we were beaten up. A huge amount of people were marching on the highway to Vienna, escorted by Arrow Cross men and gendarmes.
The Germans took over us at Hegyeshalom and took away everything that had not been confiscated before. They took us to Zürndorf. They provided us with food there: we got 1.4 kilograms of bread, 150 grams of margarine and a bowl of soup. We were entrained the same day, and then we travelled around the entire Upper Austria before taken back to Deutschkreuz via Sopron. We arrived at the end of November. We worked for the Organisation Todt. They continued robbing us. They housed us in an open attic where the snow was coming in. I worked in the kitchen as a dishwasher. We had to line up for dinner outdoors, so we were very cold and our feet and hands became frostbitten. If we did not stand in order, the Todt members beat us. They missed no opportunity to torture and beat us anyway. We did not get any state supply at all. We got food (turnips and potatoes) only from the estate we worked for. Originally 2000 of us arrived in the camp. There were 20-30 deaths a day because of frostbite, diarrhoea and weakness.
Five weeks later everybody was taken to Wiener Neustadt. Only 150 of us were left behind to clean up the farmstead. After the prisoners had left, 30 seriously ill people were taken back from the railway station. At first they were put into the infirmary. Later, however, they were ordered to be taken back. Upon that, they put the 30 ill persons onto an open wagon standing in the yard. They left them out there without any blankets for the whole night and therefore they had frozen to death by morning, with the exception of three. Then they took the 30 bodies to the cemetery and shot dead those who were still alive: two men and a woman.
We were also set off on foot for Harka two weeks later, on January 11. We worked there under the supervision of Arrow Cross and political commissars until March 27. We were performing earthwork. We were housed in open barns; we were very cold and starving. Our food supply was only four and a half decilitres of soup, 300 grams of bread and some coffee per day. They were constantly urging us to work. They were beating the women as well as the men. On the last day they beat up the men as a parting gift. One of them suffered concussion and the arm of another was broken. Moreover, at least 20 people were beaten with a club. Out of the 2000, seven hundred people died in seven weeks, mainly because of spotted fever.
All of us were set off for Mauthausen on foot without any food. We arrived there on April 9. In Loretto the SS beat up and shot dead a lot of prisoners. At least 300 were killed there and those who survived were black and blue. The face of the women became deformed and their eyes were swollen. We marched on like that and on the sixth day we were entrained. Then we travelled for seven days, during which we got no food and we lived only on sorrels and lucerne.
Totally weakened, we arrived in Mauthausen on April 9. We starved there too. We got two and a half litres of soup and 100 grams of bread every day, but it was inedible. The number of deaths was increasing day by day.
They set us off for Günskirchen ten days later in the second transport. We got no food at all for two days and we could only live on grass. In the evening of the third day finally we got a little bread and margarine. Along the way they shot dead without warning all those who sat down for a minute or left the column to pick some grass. Dead bodies were lying on the road every tenth metre.
After that terrible march of three days we arrived in Günskirchen. They put 2800 people into a barrack that could hold only 500-800. It was impossible to lie down; we could only sit cross-legged. We were sitting like that night and day, so sleeping was out of the question. Our food was turnip soup once again with 150-180 grams of bread, and therefore we kept on starving. People killed each other for some potato peels. The SS shot people dead in large numbers, just for fun, without any reason. The women from the camp were taken to the river to wash themselves every day, but the men did not get a drop of water. Consequently the men hated us. The barracks were full of lice and a lot of people died of spotted fever. There was a day when we had 230 deaths. We had to step over them, because they were laid out in front of the lavatory.
The Americans liberated us on the evening of May 4. I was already ill by then. They took me to Wels where they nursed me for a month, because I was ill with typhus. After my recovery they took me to the camp 22 in Linz. From there I was sent to Dornbach. On August 1 the Russians took over the territory and immediately set me off. Our transport, however, was turned back and then I left the group with my two fellow women prisoners and came home via Vienna and Szombathely.