The persons in question have given us the following information:

We were called up for the labour service company in Vác, on 17th April 1944. From there we were 
taken to the Leipziger factory in Óbuda. We worked in an anti-air raid company; we cleared away 
ruins. The work was hard and dangerous, but the food was enough. In November we received 
Swiss safe conducts. We moved to a Swiss house in Légrády Károly Street. Three weeks later the 
army and the police enclosed the house and they locked the doors and the main gate. There was no 
chance to escape. They took us to Józsefváros railway station and handed us over to the Germans. 
We were travelling across Austria crammed in cattle cars, without food and water and suffocating 
from the lack of air. They allowed us to get off for less than a minute once a day. The gendarmes 
swindled all our valuables, promising that they would bring us apples and water in exchange 
for our watches and fountain pens. But they did not have a heart even for that; they 
disappeared as soon as they knew that our belongings were with them. At the end of the 
horrible journey we saw that we had arrived back in Hungary, in Kőszeg. We dug trenches. We 
were treated very badly, we were beaten and they often fired at us. SA men and young Arrow Cross 
youngsters were ordered to guard us. We became itchy and infested with lice; we were cold and 
hungry.

When we set forth on foot at the end of March, a number of people were so weak that they were 
barely able to start. They were told to stay there, they would be taken away on carts on the 
following day. They locked them up in the barrack, nailed down the windows and killed them with 
cyanide. We arrived in Reichnitz on foot. Those who were not able to go any longer were stood 
aside. We had to dig their graves and then they shot them dead. We marched along to 
Mauthausen. There we were starving for 8 days. Then, they took us to Günskirchen. We suffered 
there, squeezed together in the most unimaginable filth, in a way that we could not stretch our 
limbs even once the whole time. They gave us just enough food to make us slowly die of 
hunger. The Americans liberated us on 4th May. First we stayed in a village near Wells, then we 
were taken to hospital. We came back through Linz and Dornach. Our families did not survive. I 
would like to work again.