The person in question has given us the following information: 



I started my labour service on April 27, 1943 in Kassa. We were shipped in B치cskertes and taken to Serbia by ship. Here I worked in the copper mines in Bor. We worked 12 hours a day under the supervision of the foremen of the Todt organisation, who treated us bearably. Originally the camp had not been surrounded by a fence, but later they surrounded it with closely-woven wire fencing by order of Lieutenant Colonel Mar치nyi. About 3000 of us were working there for half a year. When the Russian troops were approaching, we were set off on foot for Hungary. On the way we arrived in a village named Chervenka where the Hungarian guards handed us over to the SS. One night the SS woke us up and crammed us into an oven in the brickyard. We were deprived of all of our belongings. The Hungarian guards told us to give them everything, because we would be exterminated anyway. After that, they took a lot of labour servicemen behind the brickyard and shot them dead. Shortly after we were set off on foot and were given nothing to eat. During the march the SS split the group into two and took half of the people into the forest and shot them dead. We had to dig holes for the bodies.
They took us into the Jewish cemetery in Baja to kill us. Luckily a Hungarian lieutenant, whose name unfortunately I do not know, saved us and ordered to give us some warm meal and bread. A few days later we went further by train to Szentkir치lyszabadja. Lieutenant Colonel Mar치nyi had been waiting for us there and ordered us to go further towards the Austrian border. After that we were under the command of the SS only. We got only one warm meal and some bread for the journey. We were terribly dirty and teeming with lice.
We travelled for five days before we arrived in Schlossenburg. We were disinfected there. We did not have to work, but the SS treated us with bestial cruelty even though they had no reason to do so. We numbered only 1800 out of 3000 because almost half of the transport had died by that time. Two weeks later they entrained 400 labour servicemen and took us to Dora. My toes became frozen on the way, because we had neither shoes nor coats. Since my toes became blackened by frostbite, I was sent to the infirmary. There were plenty of people there, who were mainly lying sick with furuncles and diarrhoea. The block I stayed in was very close to the crematorium and I saw it with my own eyes when they brought about 200-250 corpses from the neighbouring camp every other day. I also saw that the stomachs of the bodies were blue and according to physicians it means that they had been poisoned. I was still in the infirmary when the rest of my group was taken to Nordhausen. As learned later, all of them perished there, mostly due to exhaustion and starvation.
We were taken from Dora to Bergen-Belsen with a transport. There was no work for us. We were starving and shivering with cold for eight days before our liberators, the glorious American troops, arrived. They took us to Zelle where we were provided with the best food possible and were allowed to rest for two weeks. Then they set us off for home with a Czech transport.
As for the future, I would like to immigrate to Palestine as soon as possible.