The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived in the suburbs of Budapest in Pestújhely with my parents in my grandfather’s little 
house with a garden. My father was an assistant in a shoe shop. We lived a peaceful and 
secure life. As a thirteen-year-old boy, the only child of my parents, I was still at school. In 
March 1944, as soon as the Germans invaded the country my father was captured in the 
street and interned in Kistarcsa.

In April, local Jews had to move into starred houses designated for them. A few days later, 
they collected us from the starred houses, marched us to the railway station and entrained 
us. There was a tuberculosis sanatorium in Pestújhely, and they placed patients with TB 
together with healthy people in the same freight car. 72 of us travelled in a freight car and 
after a horrible night of travel we arrived in Budakalász the next morning. Here, in the brick 
factory 15,000 people were lodged, mostly Jews from the northern suburbs of Budapest: 
from Újpest, Rákospalota, Cinkota, etc. One of my uncles was appointed as foreman and 
also as head of the department of food supplies. Thanks to him, my mother and I had a good 
life.

The 8th of July, they entrained us at the railway station of Budakalász, and we set off in the 
last transport. There were 3,000 people on the train. Thanks to my uncle, who was 
appointed also as commander of the freight car, we got into a car for families, where there 
were only 54 people. We were supplied with everything and could stay quite comfortably. 
The Hungarian National Jewish Aid Action sent us 15,000 loaves of bread, jam and cottage 
cheese for the journey, which was distributed among us. Hungarian gendarmes escorted us 
till Kassa, where they handed us over to the SS. During the journey they tried to make us 
believe that we would remain in the country, that the young would work and the old would 
take care of the children. We would get weekly salaries and have the opportunity to keep 
contact with our relatives in letters. We believed them; only when we crossed the 
Hungarian border did we realise what was happening and we already knew we were 
finished.

The 11th of July, at 4 am we arrived in Auschwitz. Prisoners in striped clothes jumped in the 
freight cars and instructed us to get off fast, shouting that the “town was on fire,” we had to 
leave behind the luggage. The elderly and the children had to stand on the left side, 
while men and women were sent to the right side. I said good-bye to my mother, who 
was sent to the left side, and whom I have not seen ever since. My uncle pulled me 
close and I remained with him. Selections were done by Márton Zöldi who was in an SS 
uniform together with Feketehalmy-Czeydner who conducted the massacres in the area of 
Újvidék.

After the selections we were led to the baths, where they took away all that I had, cut my 
hair off, and gave me striped clothes. There were 15 of us under the age of sixteen and we 
had to stand apart. After the bath we lined up in the yard and went into a block. I got into 
block no. 11 of the gipsy camp, where there were 1,200 of us; our block leader was a person 
called Ferenczi deported from Kassa.

The following day, the series of early morning reveilles started, together with the roll calls 
that lasted hours. We were very close to the Carpathians. At dawn it was really cold and we 
suffered a lot from cold in our light clothes. The third day, my uncle crossed the block 
shouting my name and he found me. Afterwards, we met every day. Later, two of our 
friends from Pestújhely got into the kitchen, who brought us food several times. Another 
uncle of mine got into the kitchen working in the night shift, while the uncle with whom I 
travelled was assigned the job of a smith in the Hollwagen warehouse, in the machine 
center, so they could both help me. 

Seven of us underage boys got into the kitchen. Selections started also in the block and 
among my seven friends with whom I was in the kitchen only I survived. I was a pale and 
thin child and it was thanks to my uncle that I was not sent to the gas chamber. When the 
first time they selected us we did not know what was the point, we did not even think of the 
gas chamber. The only thing we knew was that selected people were locked in a separate 
block. At the second selections we more or less knew what it was about but still did not 
regard it seriously enough. Selections were always before roll calls. These times my uncle 
came to fetch me and took me into the store and hid me. After selections I went back to the 
block for the roll call. During the second selections 5,000 young children, who had arrived 
in the meantime with various transports, were sent into the gas chamber. I managed to 
avoid the third selections, which was the most severe, with the help of my uncle who 
hid me in the store in a case, and after selections a Blockälteste, who loved children a 
lot, and also money, helped me slide back into the block. Each of the three selections 
was on Jewish main holidays, the first on New Years Day (Rosh Hashanah), the 
second on Yom Kippur, and the third on Hanukkah. Soon after the last selections great 
transports left the camp, which started to be evacuated. I still stayed together with my two 
uncles but not for long because soon they were selected for the labourers’ camp “D,” and 
both were taken to Landberg. I was separated from them on the third of November and 
remained on my own.

On the 4th, Dr Mengele entered and told us that we either go out to work or else we know 
what was awaiting us … naturally, we applied for work. I got into an Aussenkommando. 
We unloaded potatoes from wagons, carried them to the fields and put them in pits. I could 
not physically stand this work for more than a week, since I was very weak. I told the 
Schreiber to do something in my interest, because I felt I would collapse if I had to 
continue.

I got into the children’s block, from where we did not need to go out to work. This was 
block no. 29, from which later I was moved into block 11, which had been earlier the block 
of the Sonderkommando. It was a closed block from which children were not allowed to go 
out.

When on the 19th of January 1945 Auschwitz was evacuated, we had to leave. After four 
days of a very difficult walk, they put us on a train, 130 people in each open wagon, and we 
arrived in Mauthausen four days later. We got a kilo of bread, a kilo of canned meat and 
100 grams of margarine for the journey. We suffered a lot during the travel, there were 
great snowstorms and we got off the train numbed by the cold. One of my feet was broken 
because of the four-day walk and I hardly could walk. 

In Mauthausen they led us into the baths, where we had to completely undress again; we got 
clean shirts, underwear and they put us up in a block that was much smaller than the blocks 
in Auschwitz, where 1,200 stayed hunched up. Young children were separated here from 
the rest and the SS did not call them “Jude” but “Junge.”

Two days later, I left Mauthausen for Melk with a transport of labourers. I got into the 
squad of potato peelers. Later, they took me to work. We constructed a subterranean 
factory. Towards the end they put explosives at the entrance and that was how we worked 
there.

At the end of March, they took me back to Mauthausen from Melk, where they bathed me 
and put me in quarantine in block 3, and later in the tent camp. A week later we marched to 
Gunskirchen in three days, where children immediately got charity packages, while only 20 
adults could share one pack. 

After a week’s stay in Gunskirchen, on the 4th of May 1945, Americans entered the country 
and liberated us. 

After the liberation we went to Wels, where I lived in houses of civilians for three weeks 
before I fell ill. I had 40 degree Celsius temperature, and they took me to a sanatorium in 
Schallerbach, where I lay for 3 months. When I recovered I got back to the area of 
Gunskirchen again, we were lodged in a collecting camp, where we had excellent supplies, 
and I stayed there until lately, till I returned home with a transport that set off in the 
beginning of October.

At home I received the sad news that my father, whom I have not seen since his internment, 
had died, but I found my grandparents and 3 of my uncles alive, who received me happily 
and I became their favourite. 

As soon as I arrived home, my grandparents enrolled me in school, where I will 
continue my studies from tomorrow.