The person in question has given us the following information: 

The Jews were quite well off under the Czech rule in Beregszász. They enjoyed equal rights with the Czechs, there were no anti-Jewish decrees and no harm was done to them. Soon after the Hungarian occupation the trade licenses of the Jews were withdrawn and the men were called up for labour service. In 1941 ca. 500 Jews were deported from Beregszász to Poland; none of them came back. Later an eyewitness informed me that these unfortunates were driven into the Dnester by the Germans. 

The German occupation took place on March 19, 1944. We were ordered to wear a yellow star immediately, which resulted in daily harassment of Jews on the streets. Young men were assigned to construct the ghetto. We did not even get any food supply, so we had to go home to eat. After three weeks they started to move the Jews from the neighbouring areas to the ghetto. We were fed with promises that Jews were being moved there only from the villages, since Jews were not allowed to live in rural areas. We believed up to the last minute that we would not have to move to the ghetto. Later they wanted to make us believe that we would perform earthwork in the Transdanubian region and the families would stay together. Nobody thought that we would be taken to Germany. If we had known it, we would have escaped. Unfortunately later I was separated from my parents anyway; had I known it, I would have fled to Budapest. We realised that we were being taken to Germany only in Kassa, as we entered Slovakia. On the way we ate only our own food and we were suffering a lot from thirst. 

We travelled from Saturday until Wednesday in the extreme heat. There were 70-80 people in a cattle car. In Kassa a German officer gave a speech: he said that our supply would depend on our work performance.  

When we arrived in Auschwitz, we had to leave everything in the cattle cars. After getting off we were selected. Unfortunately my parents were torn from me.  In the bath we were deprived of all of our belongings and we were given striped prisoner’s uniforms. I was assigned to the transport block where I spent three days. 

On May 13 we arrived in Buchenwald. We were quite well off here. The food was satisfactory and we had nothing to say against the treatment either.  

We were dragged further to Ohrdruf due to the air raids. Only the Jewish inmates worked in this penal camp. We were constructing a tunnel in the mountains for the purpose of an SS ammunition magazine.  Five or six of us got a loaf of bread, three-quarters of a litre of turnip soup once a day and bitter coffee twice.  We were accommodated in wooden barracks; two of us slept in one bed with one blanket. We did not have straw mattresses, so we slept on the bare boards. My leg is still black from sleeping on that hard surface. One afternoon we buried 170 corpses: this is when I caught typhoid fever. After 28 days spent in bed I was thrown out. We were set off for Buchenwald on foot. We covered 80 kilometres in eight days at the beginning of April; all we had on were a pair of trousers and a prisoner’s coat. Two of us got a loaf of bread weighing one and a half kilograms. During the march we picked raw turnips and potatoes. Those incapable of walking were shot. 

We arrived in Buchenwald on April 9. Two days later the Americans liberated us.