The person in question has given us the following information: 

In 1941 my parents and four siblings were taken to Poland. After half a year I managed to escape home with one of my siblings. In 1941 I started my labour service in Kassa. I was staying there for three months. I continued my labour service on May 13, 1943 in the railway construction company in Püspökladány. We got enough food and the treatment was satisfactory as well. On January 24, 1944 we were taken to Stanislaw and from there to Chowel where we were very badly off. Our commander was an Arrow Cross man from Budapest. His name was Lorberer; he was always beating us. The situation was getting worse every day, but later the commander was replaced and our situation improved. We stayed there until December 15, 1944, then we were handed over to the Germans, who took us from there to Flossenbürg.
The journey lasted eight days. There were 50-54 of us in a freight car and we were not given any provisions. Flossenbürg was a camp for labour force distribution, so we spent only a couple of days there. In the course of this ca. ten days we were sitting in the cold weather with nothing but a shirt and underwear on. We got very little food: only a quarter of a loaf of bread. We were lined up for roll call for two hours in the morning and another two in the evening. We were standing there almost completely naked. From Flossenbürg we were taken to work to Herzbruck; the trip lasted only 24 hours. We were drilling a tunnel and it was really hard work. Despite this, we did not get breakfast, the lunch was three litres of soup, and the dinner was a quarter of a loaf of bread, 25 grams of margarine and no coffee. We were working from 6:30 am to 6 pm with Russians, Poles and Italians. The workplace was 10 kilometres away and we took the train there.
Eight hundred fifty of us left for Dachau. We were walking for nine days and on the way we got bread only three times and some soup twice. That was all. We arrived in Dachau on April 17, and by that time we were only 111 of us. Many died along the way, because they were weak and incapable of walking. The SS shot dead those who sat down and then they threw the bodies into the forest and left them there.
In Dachau there were 1000-1200 of us in a block. There was no work. We got coffee in the morning, soup for lunch and one loaf of bread for the eight of us. On April 28 American troops liberated us. I was staying there, because I felt very weak and could not leave. I stayed until May 31; until then I lay ill with typhus. There were 3000 persons with typhoid fever there and we were afraid that the camp would be set on fire, so I escaped. I was in Pserov (Czech Republic) for five weeks where I lay ill; I came home via Pozsony after I had recovered.

My future plans: Palestine.