The persons in question have given us the following information:

Four thousand Jews lived in Érsekújvár. They worked in various intellectual, industrial and commercial professions; most of them were well off. Previously we had been well off too, but since my (Sarolt Markstein) husband had to perform labour service for years, we had to rely on my and my daughter's earnings. Even so, we lacked nothing and had our nice home from former times. One dawn we were unexpectedly roused by gendarmes and required to pack immediately. They took us into the brickyard by cart. Before departure they had searched the house and took whatever jewellery and money they found. About 30,000 people, including Jews from the neighbouring areas, were crowded into the brickyard, which was guarded by Hungarian gendarmes. There was a gendarme standing every metre, therefore escape was impossible. We stayed there for five days, filled with uncertainty and anxiety. We were subjected to body search and placed into freight cars. They crammed 75 people into each car and locked us up for the entire journey.
After travelling for three terrible days, we arrived in Auschwitz. We were lucky enough to stay together. The others could not even say goodbye to their loved ones, because they were immediately separated. In the bath we were stripped and shaved. After the shower we were given ragged, striped, linen clothes. I (Magda M.) had a very good pair of shoes, which were taken from me, and I was given a non-matching pair. We were assigned to camp B. Most of the time we had to line up for roll call. Sometimes we moved rocks from one place to another and then back again. They were very heavy rocks. We had to fill the wheelbarrows completely, otherwise we were beaten. They were beating us constantly. An SS officer beat a girl so badly that her arm broke, and then the SS officer boasted about it to the others. The food was poor and we were starving most of the time. The crematorium was constantly working; the smell of burning flesh was gruesome. I (Magda M.) was hiding all the time because of the selections. Once I escaped through the window. In the pouring rain we had to pass naked in front of Dr Mengele and his assistants.
We were taken to Horneburg in a labourer’s transport. That was a very small camp near Hamburg, with a total of 200 women. We worked in the Honeburger Lederfabrik, although at that time it was not a leather factory, but an ammunition factory. The work was not hard. Our treatment, however, was terrible. We were constantly beaten. The SS women were especially cruel. Their Sunday pastime was to take us into the washroom one by one, and then all of them beat us until they got exhausted. Afterwards I could neither stand nor lie down. They stole our rations of marmalade and bread, and we were given only coffee and turnip soup. They did not allow us to wash ourselves. Everyone in the camp was covered with scabs and boils. During the short period of time while we were there, only bad things happened to us.
We were transported further again. We travelled for two days with no food. Pforta was our next stop.
A beautiful underground factory had been built there into the interior of a hill. That was where we worked and stayed. We could go out to the daylight only every third day for 15 minutes. The treatment was bad there as well. Later we were moved into tents. I think it happened because no one could have endured life down there any longer. We were doing earthwork there. We had to line up for roll call every day. We had to stand for hours in the pouring rain, with no scarves to cover our shaved heads. Those who put their hands into their pockets were beaten. In any case, we were constantly beaten and slapped in the face. The food, which was scarce and of poor quality anyway, was carried from the top of the hill, and it had been often spilled out before it reached the camp. In that case we were not given anything to eat for 36 hours. Our daily food supply was one litre of turnip soup and 200 grams of bread.
We were in Fallersleben for ten days. There we did not have to work or line up for roll calls; however, we were still starving.
After that we travelled in dirty coal cars for eight days, during which we were given 150 grams of bread twice
We arrived at Salzwedel, which was in chaos by then. The 500 women there were no longer working. The Americans liberated us there on April 14, 1945.