The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on May 16, 1944 in Aszód. We performed various kinds of work in Zombor and Janyapuszta. On November 28, 27 of us holding Swiss protective documents were set off for Pest. We were told that Lance Sergeant József Tóth would hand us over to a labour service company protected by the Swiss Embassy. On the way Tóth took our safe conducts and 50 pengős from each of us saying that in exchange he will escort all of us home. The next day he took us straight to his flat, locked us up in the air raid shelter and the next day he handed us over to an Arrow Cross patrol. The Arrow Cross deported us to Germany with the next transport. 
Eighty persons were crammed into a cattle car. We did not get anything to eat or drink. The cattle cars were sealed and were not opened for five days. The Germans opened them up in Zürndorf and from then on our food supply was looked after.  After 12 days of travel we arrived in Sachsenahusen. Our transport consisted of ca. 2500 Hungarian Jews.  Immediately after our arrival all of our belongings were taken away and we had to put on striped clothes. The next day we were all taken to Oranienburg where we spent 10 days in quarantine in the hangar of the Henckel aircraft factory. Here we were put on separate transports. Along with 350 other prisoners I was taken to Sachsenhausen where we were waiting to be assigned to a working unit. 
With eight other prisoners I was taken to a car repairing work unit. There were only 31 prisoners in the camp, and we worked under normal working and treatment conditions until April 17.  Escaping from the approaching Russians we were taken back to Sachsenhausen, then further after a few days.  The number of the prisoners amounted to 44,000. The sick were left in the hospital and we were driven away in groups of 500. We marched only a few hundred metres when a huge explosion indicated that the hospital was blown up with 2500-3000 patients in it; no one survived. For hours the flames painted the sky red. We were driven in a forced march without any food. After seven days only 20,000 of us arrived in the Gülow forest, since those who lagged behind were shot on the way by the guards. We were utterly exhausted of the tremendous sufferings.  The female SS overseers were especially active in torturing us. We were all close to fatal exhaustion when - on April 29 or 30 - Red Cross trucks arrived in endless columns and saved those who were still alive.  Everybody got a package weighing five kilograms. We torn the packages apart like hungry animals and ate their content in minutes; many fell sick because of that. As we marched further, the Red Cross trucks followed us and provided us with 3-5-kilogram packages every day. On May 2 we caught sight of the American troops near Schwerin on the road. The SS guards disappeared a few kilometres earlier. The Americans took very good care of us. I fell ill with very heavy diarrhoea; I was taken to hospital where I was treated for three weeks. After that I grabbed the first possibility to get on a transport and came home.