The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on September 20, 1940 in Nagykáta. I was assigned to company no 3/2. We spent only two days here, then we were taken to Ukraine. The guards were the worst possible. Lance Sergeant Gyula Mentes was executed by the Russians. He had a squad of 12 people and he ordered them to dig bunkers on the banks of the River Don every night. This unit was called the penal squad. Those who hid valuables that were found were shot dead or beaten to death. I was luckily assigned to be a chef, therefore I did not get into trouble. We had a corporal named Kis. He hit a weak fellow of mine so hard that he fell. I told him to hit me instead of this weak boy, since I would hit back; I actually attacked him with a shovel. Of course this could not remain unpunished: soon I was moved from the kitchen and was trussed up for three hours. Moreover after that I had to work on the anti-tank ditches too. We were constantly attacked by the Russians. Second Lieutenant Zsigmond Kelem was the company commander; everything was done with his consent. He turned a blind eye to what was happening and actually he approved what the guards had done to us. In front of the labour servicemen he pretended to be a good man, however on one occasion we overheard him saying to the lance sergeant: “If a filthy Jew is lagging behind, shoot him”. The food was completely fatless. One boy died after the other due to the minus 40-50 degrees Celsius temperature and the hunger.  On January 14, i.e., two days prior to the Russian breakthrough at the Don, I escaped from the company. I joined the Russians and was given a machine gun there. I came back with the Russian patrol to show them the fortifications. 
We called upon the Hungarians to surrender. We told them that in that case they would not be hurt. Many did not surrender and these were shot. Later we went to the German lines where ca. 10-15 people surrendered. 
This is how I was taken to Marshank (400 kilometres of Moscow) in January 1943. There were 12,000 German, Italian and other POWs, including many Jews. I was here until August 25, 1944, then those considered to be strong were taken away to Sloviensk (near Donetsk). This industrial city was almost completely destroyed by air raids and we had to participate in the reconstruction. There were ca. 1500 of us in the camp. They made the Germans work exceptionally hard; they were very easy on the Jews. We had a Jewish officer, who helped us to get jobs in various workshops, which meant we had to perform lighter work. I worked in the laundry and the disinfecting facility. In the beginning I was a camp gendarme and I made sure that not so many Germans would get home. I beat up those who stole so hard that they could hardly walk. We 40 Hungarian and Romanian POWs left in August 1945. We travelled through Romania and we crossed the border at Kürstis. We travelled by train; our rations were satisfactory. 
As for my future plans, I would like to stay here and later I might be going to America.