The person in question has given us the following information

I was taken from the ghetto of Kassa directly to Auschwitz. Following our arrival, prisoners dressed 
in striped clothes got on the train and pushed and chased us off very quickly. They told us to leave 
our baggage up there, because they would be brought after us later. At the train station the old 
people, the ill and the mothers with small children were put in a separate group, the able-bodied 
ones to another. 
When family members wanted to say goodbye to each other, we were told that we would meet 
on Sunday. Alas, we will never meet them again. 
We were taken to the bath, where they stripped us completely naked, they cut our hair and bathed 
us. They did not give us towels after the hot bath, but we had to be standing for hours wet and 
naked as we were in a cold room. Finally they brought us clothes, only not our own ones, but 
ragged prisoner’s clothes. Then they drove us to a barrack, where there had been a large number of 
people already, so we could not find place for ourselves but on the floor. We had to spend the night 
like that, sitting on the floor.  On the next day we were lining up for roll call from half past two at 
dawn to eight o‘clock in the morning. Then, we received some warm black coffee. Later we had to 
queue up for lunch, which was so bad that I could not eat it that time. Later I would have found it 
acceptable. Another Appell followed in the afternoon. 
Some days later I was selected for a transport of labourers and I was taken to Folkenberg by train. 
That was a small camp, which lies 80 kilometres far away from Breslau. There were only Jewish 
men there. We built a tunnel. We worked 8 hours a day and lined up for roll call for 2 hours before 
going to work. They did not treat us very badly, but the provisions were very small and poor. 
Three thousand of us set off from Folkenberg at the end of August. We were marching for six 
weeks and travelling in open freight cars for four days. About the devastation among us on the way, 
it is sufficient to say that 200 people arrived in Ebensee. 
Ebensee was a large camp; about thirty thousand men of different nationalities were there. It was an 
extermination camp. People were beaten horribly. We did all kinds of outdoor works for ten hours a 
day and we were lining up for roll call for another two hours before work. We lived in wooden 
barracks, where four of us slept on a berth. There was not, of course, room enough for four people, 
so I never had enough rest. The food was less and less every day. It was an everyday occurrence 
that the SS men beat somebody to death. Many people died every day. Most of them died from 
complete exhaustion. The hardest work was building the tunnel. Those who worked there did not 
survive for more than 3-4 weeks. 
On 5th May 1945 the Americans liberated us. Now, since I have regained my strength and I am 
home, I will settle my things at home and then I would like to emigrate to Palestine.