The person in question has given us the following information: 

On October 23, 1944 we were taken to Kispest from the field of the National Centre for High School Sport Clubs.  We built fortifications there for a couple of days and then our aimless, torturous march began. We were dragged all over the country, but our work was not needed anywhere. Unfortunately there was no accommodation or food supply either. We ran out of the food we had brought from home quickly and only those could get something to eat who managed to exchange something with local peasants. Meanwhile the Arrow Cross robbed us over and over again: they took away our watches, rings, flashlights and all other valuables. We were marching all the way on the Vienna-bound highway to the Hungarian-Austrian border. There we were entrained and taken to Austria under German supervision. Later we were taken back to Hungary, to Kopháza. 

In Kopháza we were accommodated in barns and lofts.  We were very cold. We were dragged out to work even in the coldest weather and blizzards; there was no mercy for the sick either: they were chased out to work too.  We were building fortifications throughout the whole winter. During work we met male prisoners. They were even less able to endure the ordeal than us women. We were beaten during work too. In general there was more beating than food. We were given bitter black coffee in the morning; it was rather black water than coffee.  We were given soup after work. This was also completely empty, fatless and only every so often had a carrot or two in it. The only way to help ourselves was to exchange all dispensable pieces of clothing for food, but it was strictly forbidden. Once I escaped, but I was captured. I was severely beaten up, but there was no other retaliation. 

We were taken to Lichenwörth in early March. We were accommodated in a non-operating weaving mill here. There were mainly women from Budapest here. We were lying on the ground on straw. We were teeming with lice and we suffered terribly from the cold. We did not have to work, but we were not given food either. We were condemned to death from starvation. Many died of fatal exhaustion and diarrhoea. We were strictly supervised: we could not leave the factory, therefore not even the shrewdest were able to get some food.  We could not do anything but lie there, starve and wait for the Russians. They came on April 12 and after a long time, finally we could eat as much as we wanted.