The person in question has given us the following information:

I was called up for the labour service in Jászberény on 17th May 1944. We worked at Ferihegy 
airport till 2nd July, when the first big air raid hit Budapest. I also got injured during the air raid. 
They took me to the military hospital that was set up in the orphanage in Fasor. There I found out 
that my right hand had become crippled, I would not be able to use it any more. The person sent by 
the welfare centre of disabled soldiers who visited me promised that either they would retrain me 
for a new trade or they would teach me to write with my left hand. Some weeks later they moved 
me to the military hospital in Komárom, because there was not enough place for the army. Then, 
because of the lack of space they sent me back to my company in Ferihegy again; I had to shuttle 
from there to the ambulance in Pest.

On 27th November, they took me to Józsefváros railway station where they entrained me. I cannot 
remember how many people were locked up together in a cattle car, but I know that lying down 
was out of the question; we only had room enough to sit down pressed against each other. At 
Hegyeshalom we were handed over to the SS, then they took us to Zürndorf. There the SS 
demanded us to give them every possession, they said that otherwise they would shoot us dead. 
From there they took us back to Sopron, where armed youngsters of the Arrow Cross beat 
the hell out of us with rifle butts and kicked us all over while we were getting off the train.  

They took us to Fertőrákos where they put up to 200 of us in a big stable and they forgot about us 
for two days: we were not given anything to eat or drink and they did not take us to work either. On 
the third day, which was a Sunday afternoon, they took us to dig trenches and at last we got 
something resembling a turnip soup. 

On 15th December they took us to Balf, where we dug trenches again. There I fell ill, I got typhus 
fever and I was lying in the open barn for weeks. The snow fell in. After my recovery I worked as a 
saddler for a short while. The inhabitants of Balf did everything to humiliate and mock us. 
From little children to adults, everybody threw stones at us and hit us with sticks. 

On 28th March we set off on foot to Mauthausen. We received practically nothing to eat; we ate 
grass, buds, clovers on the way, but only when our attendants did not see it, because they would 
have shot us down for it. They shot dead those wretches who did not bear the march and sat down 
to have a little rest. We stayed for about 10-12 days in Mauthausen. We were put up in tents, but 
we were squeezed together so much that we preferred to sleep outside in the open air. The 
provisions were unbelievably bad and small. 

Then another march followed, we went to Günskirchen. They did not give us any food for the 
three-day-long march; we fed ourselves again with grass and alfalfa that we picked in secret. There 
were already many people who could not bear the march without rest. A number of people fell 
behind to have some rest and the SS guards simply shot all of them down. Cadavers were 
lying along the street at every tenth metre.

In Günskirchen the circumstances were even worse, because we were all totally weak and they 
withdrew both our food and water, which we did not get at all while we were staying there. More 
than 2,000 people were put in a barrack. There were so many lice that we removed them from 
our clothes by the thousands and if we looked at ourselves again within half an hour we found 
even more there. Lying down in the barrack was out of the question; we were sitting 
day and night with our knees pulled up. Several of us chose to sleep outside in the open air, but 
when it started raining they began to hit each other so that they could get a place to stand inside. 
The SS men hit and shot people with pleasure, without any reason. One of the SS sergeants always 
walked along with a big German shepherd dog, usually in rainy weather when everybody was in 
the barrack. He came in and beat up everybody he could with a club and went out through the other 
door. Everybody was trying to escape from him, so they trampled each other to death. 

On the evening of 4th May, when the American troops arrived I had already been very weak and I 
even hallucinated. They took me to Wells, then to Lambach, where I received careful medical 
treatment.