The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was a labour serviceman in Budapest. I was entrained at the Józsefváros railway station on March 28. We were put into the cattle car by military gendarmes, who were very rough with us. We went to Austria and then to Sopron, where the SA took over our group. At first they searched us. However, when it came to plunder, the Hungarian Arrow Cross men had their share. 
My brothers-in-arms dug trenches and I worked in the kitchen. Therefore I got more food, which was the most important thing there. We were housed in barns; it was a miracle that we did not freeze to death. The quality of food was beyond description: we got only 250-350 grams of bread and some terrible soup, which was more precisely warm water with few turnips in it. People grew weak and a typhus epidemic broke out. Unfortunately a lot of people died.
On March 28 the Russians broke through and the Germans had to carry us further. We were going for six days on foot. The SS attacked us in several villages, for example in Loretto. They beat and kicked us and later they shot at us too. They tore off our backpacks. There were so many corpses along the road that we always bumped into them. On April 3 we were entrained again and we went to Mauthausen.
There were several people here there under terrible circumstances. Those who could not find room in the tents were lying outdoors in the mud and dirt. We got 120 grams of bread and eight decilitres of soup every day. However, it happened sometimes that we got nothing. They were beating us all the time and there was an SS sergeant who was shooting into the tents just for fun. We stayed there for two weeks and then we started the death march.
During a journey of three days we got no food at all. We were had to pick grass and snails and to eat them. Those who could not pace up and fell behind were shot dead ruthlessly.
We arrived in Günskirchen, which was an even worse place than Mauthausen. The camp was horribly dirty and full of lice. We did not have a chance to clean ourselves. People were dying off like flies. I was carrying corpses, therefore I got a little bit more soup. The SS men were so cruel that they were even beating those who were half dead.
Fortunately, I spent only a very short time there. The Americans came and took us to Hörsching where I could partly recover due to the good food. From there I came home with a transport.