The person in question has given us the following information:

I went to Auschwitz from the ghetto of Ungvár. We went through the selections right after 
our arrival, and I got separated from my family. They took me to a bath, seized everything I 
had, made me undress, cut my hair, bathed me and gave me ragged striped clothes.
They led me to block 23, in Camp C. I spent three months in Auschwitz. During most of 
this time I was lined up for roll call. The crematorium was opposite the camp, and the 
continuous smell of burnt human flash was horrible. In the first weeks I kept fainting 
because of the smell and the ideas I had about it. Once, Dr Mengele entered the block 
and asked if anyone had problems. He addressed the girls so gently and lovingly that 
everyone felt touched because for months no one had spoken to us in a humane voice: 
they had only beaten us and cursed us with the most hateful words. Dr Mengele said 
we should not be afraid of him, nobody was going to be hurt but we would only have a 
better life in the future. And he took away the people who stepped forward to 
complain about their problems, and they never returned to the block.

At the end of August, they took me to Stutthof. My workplace was in Argenau. We had to 
walk 8 kilometres a day back and forth. We dug trenches. We were very hurried during 
work and were not allowed to have a second of rest. We hardly got anything to eat, and I 
starved incredibly. I would have surely died here.

Luckily, I was soon transferred to Thorn, and later, after a week of journey, I arrived in 
Schlossbirg, and then in Olec. These are little villages next to each other, where I worked 
for some time. We lived in the middle of a forest in a little camp. We worked hard digging 
trenches, laying cables in the soil, and preparing anti-tank ditches. The supervisors were 
from Lithuania, and they beat women cruelly. There was a roll call before and after work. 
We were very cold but we did not starve since rations were supportable. Besides, we 
obtained potatoes in the fields. At the end of January, the Russians liberated us.