The persons named above have given us the following information:

There were 35-40 Jewish families in Tárkány. They lived mostly of selling fruit. 
Financially they were fine, and we also lived well.
When Germans invaded the country the first antisemite rule prescribed the use of 
yellow stars. It was followed by the order that Jews could not stay in the 
street after 6 pm, and other measures would have probably followed but that did 
not matter any more, since gendarmes came one day and rushed us to get ready in 
15 minutes and leave. We could take as much food as we could carry. We were led 
into the school. At 2 am we moved on towards Agárd, and later into the ghetto of 
Sátoraljaújhely. Gendarmes who treated us the most brutally in Tárkány were the 
following: non-commissioned officer Béla Német, András Bódy, József Demeter, 
Domrádi (who was transferred to Kassa), and Pálfalvi. The sculptor József Branna 
lived in Tárkány together with József Branna senior, who was a teacher and the 
director of the school. These people had incited against Jews already before 
Germans entered the country, and had given long lectures regarding the need to 
exterminate Jews. They were the ones rounding up Jews. Gendarmes let them do it 
as they knew that their impatience to destroy us was even stronger than 
gendarmes’ zeal in achieving their “Sacred Goal.” Gendarmes escorted us into the 
ghetto of Sátoraljaújhely. The ghetto comprised certain streets of the town. We 
stayed in a room twenty of us, out of whom there were eight children, and prams. 
The ghetto was enclosed by wires and was guarded by policemen. The food we had 
was what we had taken from home. Christians of Tárkány wanted to bring us food 
but the aforementioned Branna threatened them to get them interned if they 
tried. We stayed in the ghetto for four weeks.
One afternoon gendarmes searched the houses and grabbed what we still had and 
led us to the railway. They crammed 75 of us into a freight car. The people who 
could not get on train got a beating. There were no buckets for water or for 
toilet in the car. We took a pot with us as we imagined we would be able to 
cook, and now we used it as a toilet. A 22-year-old girl died in our car. 
Sometimes they gave us water. In Kassa a Hungarian gendarme entered the car and 
told us that we were approaching Slovakian border, therefore everyone should 
hand in his or her valuables. He would shoot the one he caught at hiding 
something. They collected valuables in a bucket; for this purpose they had a 
bucket.
We arrived in Birkenau at 11 am. Prisoners helped us get off train. They grabbed 
children immediately. Still before we got off a German soldier had entered the 
car and told us to finish the food we still had since they would seize it 
anyway. He told the young that they would have a good life while he did not 
encourage the elderly. 
Dr. Mengele was waiting for us. He indicated with a stick where we should stay: 
to the right or to the left. When we got frightened that members of families 
were separated he told us that it was a matter of half an hour and the whole 
family would meet up again. We have not heard anything about them since then.
They cut off our hair, disinfected us and we got into a block.
We lined up for roll calls twice a day. If the roll call was not ok, because – 
for example – the Blockführer was drunk, we had to stay on knees even for an 
entire day in rain, in snow, in mud, or in scorching sun. At every roll call two 
or three people fainted.
Pregnant women were encouraged to report so that they would get double rations 
of bread and would also get butter. But when they reported it turned out that 
the goal was different. They were the most brutally operated and used for 
scientific research. 
We got disinfected every fortnight. These times we had to stand for hours 
without clothes and shoes in the toilet. Even rain fell in this toilet. It often 
happened that we remained nude after disinfections because our clothes were not 
returned. We walked around covered by blankets for 2-3 weeks until next 
disinfections. 
Once rumour had it that they were putting together a good transport. Young, 
healthy women were expected to volunteer. Many did volunteer but it turned out 
that they had to give blood – minimum half a litre each. A young girl, who gave 
three quarters of a litre, lost consciousness when her blood was being taken. 
They commented that at the worst she would be a nice cadaver but they continued 
to take her blood because she had good blood – as they said. 
We got some cooked grass full of pebbles as food. As a result, our intestines 
were destroyed and all of us fell sick with diarrhoea. Mortal victims of 
diarrhoea among our closest comrades were the wife of Dr. Steier from Munkács, 
Szerén Gedalovics ###, Sári Jakobovics and her sister Eszter Jakobovics. 
We could go to the toilet twice a day, in the morning and in the evening, in 
closed lines, five people in a line. They did not even allow us the time to 
finish with the toilet. Not even the people who had diarrhoea could go to the 
toilet more frequently. There was an incredible squalor. Three or four days 
passed before one could wash. Often we gave our bread to get a little water to 
wash.
We slept on a berth fifteen of us. If someone wanted to change position she had 
to disturb everyone.
The camp was enclosed by electric wires, which offered a simple way for 
committing suicide. Many used this opportunity. It happened that men from the 
neighbouring camp threw us a pack of food. If the pack got stuck on the wires, 
and someone touched it she died. But it hardly happened, as you could not even 
approach the wires because they immediately shot at you. Once a woman somehow 
approached the wires and the SS shot in her mouth.
Rain fell in the block. During rainy nights we sat all night long poured by 
rain. 
Fifteen of us got a pot of food without spoons or plates or any other piece of 
cutlery. We used our hands to eat liquid soup and also had to hurry as the pot 
needed to be passed on. 
They woke us at 2 am and gave us a coffee. We begged them to let us sleep and 
said we would prefer to do without a coffee. It was not allowed. Lunch was 
distributed at 8 am, dinner (some bread with Zulag) at 7 pm. People went on 
collapsing because of hunger.
Once, a roll call was not right because a woman had fallen asleep. They found 
her, took her away and shot her.
The wife of the rabbi did not want to kneel down during roll call because of 
religious reasons. They wanted to force her to kneel using selected methods of 
tortures and all day long physical exercises. When she was about to collapse 
they kept asking her sarcastically: “Are you going to kneel down?” She did not 
kneel down but died of torture.
A German woman teacher Drechsler was the Lagerführerin, a German woman called 
Brunner was the Oberrapportführerin and another one called Greese was the 
Rapportführerin. If they noticed a shawl, a pullover, or stocking they would 
beat you half-dead. We were so terrorised by them that everyone went dumb when 
they entered in the usually noisy and chaotic camp. We coloured our faces with 
beetroot or pinched our cheeks to have a healthy and serene look as we were so 
scared they would bring us into gas chambers.
Once, we were crushing stones when another transport arrived. The undersigned 
Dóra Terkeltaub have witnessed the following case personally:
A woman stepped out off the line of people maybe because she felt sick or could 
not walk. SS-Aufseherin went to her and gave a blow on the back with a hooked 
club. The unfortunate woman started to run and was followed by the Lagercapo. He 
caught her, started to caress her to get her back to the queue. In the meantime 
the Aufseherin arrived, caught her neck with the hooked club and started to pull 
her back towards the queue. The unfortunate woman kept running away. The 
Aufseherin pulled her to the queue, made two women keep her, and went to the SS 
command and returned in the company of an SS-Mann. This SS-Mann tied the hands 
of the woman, trod on her, and kicked her. Then he took off his belt and put it 
around her neck and pulled her away along the road, out of the gate, where he 
threw her into a ditch. They let her lie there half an hour, when the 
Rappotführerin went to her and pulled her up holding the belt and asked the SS 
men standing around to check whether she was alive. She was alive, so she pushed 
her back into the ditch. Half an hour later they repeated this “game.” Perhaps 
she was still alive because the Blockführer went there and took her life with 
two shots.
Often, we had to stand nude all days long in front of Dr. Mengele and Dr. Tillo 
who were doing the selections, or we had to run in front of them with upright 
arms and if they discovered the smallest pimple on someone she was sent among 
those who had mange.
We would not finish the entire bread portion but would try to save a part 
although it was prohibited. Nevertheless, we tried. Of course, we could not 
leave bread in the camp where everyone was hungry and it was only natural that 
one would steal from the other. We prepared a little sack out of rags and kept 
our bread in it and brought it also to the toilet. However, if they caught 
someone with the sack they would beat the “vicious one” half-dead.
From Camp C we were moved to the Czech camp, where we stayed for three days. One 
morning they took me from there into Camp A.
We arrived at 10 am and stood in the rain till 10 pm. The crematorium was ten 
metres from us. There was a choking smoke and we saw high flames. At 10 pm we 
got into disinfecting rooms. We stayed in a room with a broken window in 
terrible draught till 4 am. Everyone had already great pains in the head and the 
ears. At 4 am, we got clothes and were led into a cold and dirty block and we 
were still very hungry. Here we could occupy nest-like wholes that were carved 
in the wall but as soon as we found our place they whistled to call us for a 
roll call. We were standing till 8.30 am. At 8.30, we returned to the block, lay 
down but at 9.30 we went back to the bathroom where the doctor selected us 
again. If he did not like the breasts or the belly of some because they were not 
big enough he singled them out and there was no question about their fate. At 
noon, we were sent back to the block. We got a bit of lunch, half litre of soup 
to share among ten of us. Next morning, after roll call we returned to the block 
and went to be disinfected again. The day after, we got some clothes: ragged 
jackets, dresses with a red cross on the back. Afterwards, we were led into a 
clean block but could not enjoy it for long because there was another roll call 
15 minutes later. After the roll call we were escorted to the freight cars and 
were transported into Torgau. This happened around the 26th of October.
They gave us bread for the journey but we did not dare to fetch them, as we 
believed we were being taken into crematorium. We travelled for three days 
escorted by SS soldiers without water, straw, or covers.
We lived under somewhat better conditions in Torgau. We got a spoon, a bowl, a 
cup, a knife, a towel, and soap. Everyone had a bed on her own with two 
blankets, and there was also a nice bathroom. We felt like queens. We had a day 
off for rest – and that seemed already a celestial gift. The day after, we got 
white smocks to use for work.
There were 11 SS-women with us and a Hungarian Oberscharführer. We worked for an 
ammunition plant doing the job of men. The plant was full of different gases, 
consequently, our lips and nails became blue. We had continuously terrible 
headache.
We received 5 pieces of potatoes for lunch and half a litre of spinach. We got 2 
kilos of bread once a week and had to divide it for the days of the week. 
In the evening we measured bread with centimetres to see how much we could still 
eat since we had to spare it strictly. If once someone ate more than permissible 
later she had to starve for days and when she received her next ration she again 
ate too much because she was so hungry, as a result, there was no end of 
starvation. Also rats lived on our food. 
If someone found a piece of raw potato it was as valuable as if she had found 
some fruit. We bought raw potato even for bread, and ate it as we used to eat 
apple in the happy past. 
It was prohibited to speak with civilians in the factory. If they caught you 
doing so the punishment was either beating or keeping back your dinner. We had 
to walk to the workplace marching as soldiers and if someone made a mistake in 
her steps she got a beating. 
In Torgau there were French and Italians. They shared their life with us, they 
gave us also journals, which we read naturally in secret. This is how we learnt 
that the day of liberation was not far.

If we worked at night we had to interrupt work and go into bunkers because of 
air raids. Later, air raids became so frequent that we worked either at night 
and stayed in the bunker during the day or vice versa. There was no time for 
sleeping. We begged them to let us die but we would not enter the bunkers after 
that terribly heavy work but we were not allowed. They would search for us under 
the beds with a torch and if they found someone who failed to go into the bunker 
the whole camp would not get dinner.
In the last days, when there was already nothing to do in the factory, they 
would lead us into the open also at night and would make us load boxes and 
grenades on trucks while American planes were flying around above our heads and 
we had to lie down all the time.
There were 250 of us and 250 bullets were kept prepared for us. They wanted to 
execute us at the bank of the Elba but could not carry it out as Russians 
approached us from one side Americans from the other.
We passed a morning in the bunker because the factory exploded.
During next morning we were liberated.
American parachutist flew down to us. We were crying of happiness. They gave us 
cans, chocolates, biscuits and all sorts of food. They gave us kisses. They 
hanged in our necks little mezuzahs of bones – and an American rabbi prayed with 
us. 
We stayed for a week in Torgau, from where we went to Eulenburg, where we stayed 
for three weeks. Americans transported us by car into Leipzig, where a Czech 
command organised the return of Czechs. This is how we arrived in Prague. I 
cannot describe the love and caring we received from Czechs in Prague. They took 
our luggage from the hand and carried them in the street and gave us to eat a 
lot of good things. There were some who even offered their flats, and when we 
proceeded they accompanied us to the railway station during the night. From 
Prague we came to Budapest. First, we want to go home to see if anyone survived 
of our family and later we want to emigrate to Palestine.