The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived permanently in Beregszász, but just before the Germans 
invaded the country I came to Budapest to visit my elder brother 
who was in labour service. March the 20th, I wanted to travel home. 
At the railway station in Budapest they checked the identity of 
everyone. Jews had to stay apart and were transported to Mosonyi 
Street and put in detention. Already the same evening they took 
the 1,200 of us to Kistarcsa by a separate suburb train. There 
were 500 women and 700 men among us.
The Hungarian National Jewish Aid Action gave us supplies in 
Kistarcsa. Treatment was tolerable. We did not have to work.
The 28th of April we returned to Budapest. At Keleti railway 
station they entrained the 1,200 of us and the following day at 5 
pm we were already in Auschwitz.
From Auschwitz we went to Birkenau on foot. We had to get off in 
Auschwitz because the rail did not go till Birkenau. This distance 
was around 3 kilometres. We constructed the rail until Birkenau so 
that trains could arrive in Birkenau.
We started working already the 4th of May. Constructing the rail 
was a very hard job. We worked together with men. The SS kept 
hurrying us in a horrible way. Particularly, Polish Christian 
Capos were cruel to us. We crushed stones, carried sand and metal 
lines, pushed wagons. The track was ready in 10 days.
Transports came continuously, and they took us to Brezinka, which 
was the place where transports arrived, and our belongings were 
seized. We sorted out this stuff. I did this work only for three 
days because I could not stand the smell of the crematorium, and 
was not able to listen to the screams and cries of unfortunate 
children who were meant to be killed.
There was a wood in front of Brezinka. When we came from the 
workplace and lined up for roll call we saw them burning people 
alive. They poured oil or paraffin on them and then lit them. They 
shot the people who wanted to escape. At the beginning of October 
several members of the Sonderkommando escaped because they knew 
that they anyhow faced death.
I got into Aussenkommando no. 110. We worked in the open. We 
carried stones, sand, dug trenches, also in rain and mud.
At the beginning of November, they transferred us in freight cars 
to Bergen-Belsen. We suffered for 6 weeks here. We did not work 
but starved terribly. We suffered incredibly from the horrible 
squalor.
800 of us were sent to Braunschweig, which was a completely 
bombed-out town. They lodged us in a stable that was swarming with 
lice. There was a layer of two-inches-high straw on the concrete 
that served as our beds. Washing was out of the question. Only 500 
of us survived, the rest passed away.
For 9 weeks we had to clear up the rubble. During this time we 
shovelled snow for three days in minus 20 degrees C because it was 
snowing so heavily that we could not clear the debris.
They moved us to Wattenstad by trucks. We travelled for two hours. 
We went into an infirmary, where we did not do anything. We were 
not sick, we only had some rest. Aufseherins guarded us.
From here, the journey to Ravensbrück lasted for a week. We stayed 
here for 3 weeks, and I got packs from the Red Cross twice during 
this period.
After four days of walking we finally arrived in Malchov, where 
Russians liberated us two days later.
Out of my 11 brothers and sisters only four of us did survive. The 
rest passed away and unfortunately neither my parents are alive.
Our plan is to go to the Czech Republic.