The person in question has given us the following information:

The 14th of July, 1944, they took us away from the ghetto of Érsekújvár to the local railway 
station, where they entrained us, 80 of us in a cattle car. We only had the food that we were 
allowed to bring with us, and they gave a bucket of water for 80 of us. We travelled for an 
entire week and received water only twice.

I got off the train at Brežinka railway station in Auschwitz the 21st of July. Men were 
separated from women, while they singled out mothers with children and elderly women, and 
sent them on the other side. When later we would talk about the people who left us this time 
for long we would not have the courage to name the place where they had been taken. 
We would only say: “they went to the other side.”

They seized everything we still had in the baths; we had to undress completely. (They had 
already seized our luggage claiming that they would bring them to our place by car.) They cut 
our hair off and depilated our entire bodies. As we were standing there completely naked, 
clasping our shoes in the hands – many also their glasses, which they could keep – SS soldiers 
felt not at all embarrassed; they were laughing, walking between our lines stopping here and 
there, watching us, brutally ignoring womanly bashfulness. After the bath they disinfected us 
and distributed clothes. The lucky had also underwear and medium high stocking. Threats, 
cries and even beating accompanied all these happenings. Finally, they counted us and took us 
into Camp A. Long narrow barracks followed one another. One of these barracks became my 
abode for six months, or more precisely only a ca. 70 centimetres wide place on the bunk. 

Camp soup was terrible, sand grated between our teeth. Quantity was all right. A person got 
around a litre of it and it was sufficiently dense.

Most of the day was taken by Appells. Roll calls in the morning and in the afternoon lasted 
for hours. Bread was distributed during the Appell of the afternoon (either 200 or 250 grams) 
accompanied by either margarine or cheese, sometimes by a spoonful of jam or honey, 
sometimes by salami or pâté.

Once, they selected me for a punishment kommando for some trivial mistake. Appells were 
horrible here. We had to stay lined up from 8 am till 4 pm and in the evening from 6 pm till 
12 pm in a piece of cloth, barefoot. 

I heard much talk about the selections of Dr Mengele. I saw the huge flames, I could smell the 
stench, and could even hear the screams.

By the end of my stay in Auschwitz rations got so bad that we would start fighting for a 
potato peel found in the bin.

The 18th of January, 1945, the 400 of us had to leave for Hohenelbe. We walked for two 
weeks and received 30 grams of bread and one or two raw potatoes a day. But there were days 
when we did not get any potato.

In Hohenelbe I worked 12 hours a day for a factory of radio lamps in return for scarce food. 
There were 600 of us in a barrack. No one had a bed on her own; four of us lay in a bed, or 
rather, we could only be sitting there.

Russians liberated us in Hohenelbe the 4th of May, 1945.