The person in question tells the following:

The Jewish Law did not concern me, being half-Jewish I did not fall within the law. When the 
Germans entered Hungary in March 1944, I was bound to wear a star. I lived in Mátyásföld 
where I had a villa. When the ghetto decree concerning those living in the suburbs of Pest was 
announced, I applied to the Jewish Council and the chief constable’s office for a permission 
for me and my family to move to my Christian mother in Pest. I had many acquaintances 
there, and they all supported me, so I got the permission. I was employed at the Hungarian 
Rubber Resin Factory. I lived at my mother’s when I was informed that the supervisory 
authority of general interest dismissed me with immediate effect. Then I was called to stay in 
the Blessed Catherine home for girls. I went there together with my family. That was an 
enclosed camp under military supervision. It was forbidden to leave the camp and we had to 
participate in war production exclusively, with the permission of the Ministry of Defence. 
Real serious work was done there.  

I was called up for military service on 18th September, and I was discharged from service as 
one under Swedish diplomatic immunity, on 2nd November. I was doing well there. On 5th 
November, soon after I had been discharged, the Arrow Cross men broke in the Blessed 
Catherine, caught me and wanted to take me to the Arrow Cross house in Buda. Meanwhile 
they were beating me terribly with a lash; they beat the women too. Being the only man there, 
I became their target, they focused on me. 
Then they lined everybody up, old and young, and set us off. A car caught up with us, and 
suddenly we were turned back and policemen took us back slowly. Not in a rush, but 
normally. One of the policemen whispered us that we were to go back. There was an 
infamous chaplain at the Arrow Cross, a priest, who had a revolver and a belt on him; he 
insinuated us with having hidden a bomb. Every authority knows the name of that man in this 
place.

When we went back, the police took our statements down and established the identity of the 
Arrow Cross men. The name of every ethnic German of Budakeszi is recorded there. They 
also robbed us then, but the papal nunciature got our properties back. Next morning I joined 
the company protected by the Swedes, because I had been advised to; I was told that I would 
do better there. I joined them at 4 Jókai street, and I went to work already on the first day. 
First I worked at the salt storehouse at Nyugati train station, then I sawed timber at Kelenföld 
train station. We got nothing to eat. The accommodation was terribly crowded. One person 
had a place of 40 centimetres to stay and I weighed 124 kilos at that time.    

The company was led by exempt officers. A captain came to say that he was going to arrange 
our accommodation, food, everything. He made these bombastic declarations on Saturday; on 
Monday we were taken to Józsefváros train station to be entrained. A police officer said: 
“listen here, Jews”, he spitted on us and they chased 80 of us up in the cattle car beating us 
with butts. They gave a piece of bread to everybody, with that we started a six-day long 
journey on 28th November. After six days, the Germans take us over at Hegyeshalom, and 
they gave us food immediately. In the preceding four days the gendarmes had not allowed us 
to get off the train to relieve ourselves. People had given them silver watches for a flask of 
water. At the border, soldiers told us to hand in our lighters, watches and knives. So I did. 
Then we proceeded to Bruck. 

In Bruck we got off and were accommodated in attics. We were still staying in that attic on 
2nd January, when it was 24 degrees below zero. We had to line up at 4 o’clock in the 
morning, and we never went home before half past seven, but often at ten o’clock in the 
evening. We were digging mounds and anti-tank ditches. These were 5 metres deep, we had 
to fling the earth up from there. A man called Kindl led the work, he was a member of the 
Berlin Todt organisation. He beat the people with a club. We got potato soup made of 
unpeeled potatoes for lunch and in the evening. In the morning we got black coffee and 500 
grams of bread. When it was very cold, they gave us 20 grams of margarine too. 

We were not allowed to heat, they did not agree to our request. Those who insisted, could 
wash tehmselves sometimes, but it was horribly cold. There were plenty of lice, most of the 
illnesses were caused by them. Straw-illness occurred too: it means that people became 
indifferent and they lay down on the straw and did not get up again. It had psychological 
reasons. Some people had typhus fever, but we did not report these cases, because we were 
afraid that they would be killed. I came through a less serious typhus fever myself. We had a 
sick room, where I was treated for it. About 130 people stayed there, but only 40 of them 
could fall ill, since there were no room for more. There was also a separate company for ill 
people. 

Different events lent variety to our lives, for example, members of the Hitlerjugend chose a 
person and wanted to swap watches with him. When he gave it to them, they shot him dead 
and took the watch. In these cases they made a pro forma investigation and found that the Jew 
had attacked the poor Hitlerjugend, who shot him for justifiable self-defence. The same also 
happened to a poor photographer from Kispest, of whom I do not think he had ever hurt a fly. 
There was a barber from Vienna, called Skopek, he very often hit people. He was usually 
drunk. Five people died in our company during this period.  

The medicine supply was painfully poor all the time. There was a big diarrhoea epidemic. We 
had no lint and people were full of boils because of the lack of bathing and vitamins. From 
Bruck an der Leute we went to Deutsch-Altenburg, where we were put on cargo barges. 
During the eight-day long journey we did not get anything to eat. We lived on the water of the 
Danube. An average of 3-4 people died on a barge a day, they were dropped into the Danube. 
When we arrived in Mauthausen, SS men received us and put us up in a tent bellow the castle. 
It had already been visible on many people that they would drop down. A fellow from my 
company called Endre Pálos, who had worked as an engineer at the dye house disappeared 
from beside me. Whether he fell behind, or was taken to the crematorium, I do not know. 
Up there they were continuously hitting us with clubs. The food was awful and much was 
stolen even from that. A large number of people died, sometimes they were left lying before 
the tent for as long as 2 days. Cadavers, abnormally thin like skeletons, were visible and there 
were many of them. I cannot tell their number, only that masses were lying there all the time. 
Lice began to swarm us. Washing facilities were provided, but we had grown terribly weak. 
From there they set us off to Günskirchen at the end of April. It was horrible. We ate only 
once during the three-day-long march and they chased us cruelly. If somebody stepped out of 
the row, he got shot. We saw the first cadaver on the road after 100 steps from the 
Mauthausen camp. Still in Mauthausen a man was shot dead before my very eyes in the door 
of the chapel. They also shot the stumbling people. Like many of my fellows, I left behind all 
my belongings except my towel and soap, because I was afraid that I would not be able to 
carry them on the way. I threw everything away so as not to get exhausted, thus when I 
arrived in the Günskirchen camp I had nothing with me.

I did what I could to stay alive in Günskirchen; I spent the nights in the open air, then it rained 
for three days, and finally I became soaking so much that I had to go into the barrack, and 
from that time my body was swarmed with millions of lice, which I could not get rid of. The 
food supplies were also miserable: 170 grams of bread a day and some soup made of a litre of 
water in which some slices of turnip were boiled. A great many people died there too. 100-
120 people were said to die a day in the barrack. 2,200 people were crammed in there.
Günskirchen was liberated by the 12th American troop on 4th May, 1945. These people 
treated us extremely well; they did not know what to do with us, they practically fondled us. 
Under the reign of the invader troops, however, we starved very often. One of my friends 
swapped to get food, but the Americans noticed it and they gave the food to the Christan 
camp and arrested the boy. I went to the military headquarters and with much trouble I 
managed to see an officer. I got the food back from him by saying that I was Christian. They 
were definitely antisemitic.

I know all the above from my own experience.

My future plans are the following: maybe I go back to work in the factory.  My home has 
been robbed completely. My collection, worth a fortune, has disappeared. The most 
important, however, is that my wife and my daughter, who have also been deported, come 
back and I continue my life with them.