The persons in question have given us the following information:

The Munkács ghetto consisted of only five streets and not only the Munkács Jews were concentrated here, but also the Jews from the neighbouring areas; altogether 18,000 Jews. Our house (R. K.) was in the ghetto area; the two studios had four families in them, each with six to eight children. The fences between the houses and even the gates were torn down so that the policemen and the gendarmes could walk freely in the ghetto. Constant house searches were conducted; they took away everything: all the money and jewellery. The Jews had to build the ghetto fence. The policemen and the military gendarmes were terribly brutalising the people. On Saturday they stormed the synagogue and beat everybody they could; they said the men would be taken to work. But eventually they did not take them, but they got so wild that they started to shoot in the synagogue and killed four Jews. 
One morning the gendarmes entered the house and gave us four minutes to assemble our luggage. They were chasing us out of the house with clubs and rifle butts. On the marketplace they took out everything they liked from our luggage while beating us wildly. Afterwards we were taken to the brick factory from where a transport left every day. 
When we arrived in Auschwitz, we were separated from our families. We were deprived of everything, our hair was cropped, we were given a bath and dressed in prisoner’s uniforms. We were assigned to camp C. There were selections every day. If they noticed that two people held on to each other, they separated them. There were three bunks on the top of each other.

M. N. 

Fourteen of us slept on a bunk. Every so often the uppermost one collapsed and killed someone. Reveille was at 2 am and we spent the whole morning in the yard in thin, wet clothes. Many times we had to kneel on the wet, cold ground as a punishment. We saw the terrible flames of the crematorium. When transports arrived, there was a block curfew. We could go to the toilet only with escort and in groups. If somebody went to the toilet during the night, she was severely beaten up. We did not get water for days. It was prohibited to work in the camp. Bromide was put into our food and we were just sitting or lying on our beds day after day. After a long time we were put on a labourer’s transport and taken to Hertine. This was a small women’s camp with only 600 prisoners. We worked in an ammunition factory filled with heavy, toxic gasses. It occurred that a bomb exploded and killed a few girls. We worked 12 hours a day. The foremen did not beat us. The food was very scarce. Serbian and French POWs who worked in the factory as well received many care packages and sometimes gave us food. If somebody was caught talking to a man or doing something illegal, her hair was cropped and she was locked up in a bunker. We were starving intensely and grew very weak. When the frontline approached, we were taken to Theresienstadt to be executed there. However the Red Cross took us over; they took us to hospital and took care of us until the Russians arrived.