The person in question has given us the following information:

I was dragged away from a protected building (33/a Pozsonyi Road) to the Teleki Square Arrow Cross headquarters. We spent five days there. We did not get anything to eat and we were completely robbed; those who had something on them were beaten up. After five days they took us to the Józsefváros railway station. We were entrained there. There were fifty of us, but at one of the stations 13 labour servicemen (who were full of lice) were put into our cattle car. We got something to eat, but not too much. The cattle car was full of people suffering from dysentery, but thank G-d, there were no dead. After passing the Austrian border a little more food was distributed. After 18 day of travel we arrived in Bergen-Belsen. When we arrived, we were told to surrender our rucksacks. We were driven into a tent camp. The next day we were taken into another camp; we had to undress here and we were given only underwear.  We were chased out to the snow barefoot and we got a thin prisoner’s uniform in which we spent the whole winter.  I worked in the weaving workshop. We had to line up for roll call at 3:30 am. We left for work at 7 and we worked until the evening. I had a Hungarian capo; he treated me very well. The rations were almost nonexistent: inedible turnip soup every day and a slice of bread. In the last two months we did not get bread, only two to three decilitres of soup. I was beaten up only once, when an SS found me very “fat”. The groups evacuated due to the Russian approach arrived that time. We worked outdoors and saw the cattle cars arriving full of dead bodies, mainly of Hungarian Jews.  We could not wash ourselves, since every so often they turned off the water for 10 days; we were not even allowed to go to the toilet. We did not have blankets, combs, soaps or towels. We were woken up at midnight to go to the shower. Meanwhile there was an air raid warning. At 3 am we were taken back into the block, but our bunks were taken by another incoming transport. When we were liberated on April 15, I weighed 35 kilograms,. After the liberation I was sick for four months: I had typhoid fever and diarrhoea. I was taken to hospital in Bergen. After leaving the hospital I served the English as a secretary and a translator. I left Bergen on October 17 and arrived in Budapest on October 25.