The person in question has given us the following information

As soon as we arrived in Birkenau and stepped out of the cattle car we were told that men and 
women should stand apart. Then, they created groups of old and young people of both sexes. I was 
put among the able-bodied people. We were taken to a block and there we had to undress 
completely; we were taken to the bath like that. The rest of our belongings were left there where we 
took our clothes off. We could only take our shoes with us, but they looked them through 
beforehand to check if we had hidden something in them. In the bath they cut our hair, we bathed 
and then they gave us prisoner’s clothes: a shirt, underpants and a cap. 
After bathing we were taken to a block, where we were given some soup immediately, in a way that 
every five people received a mess tin without spoons. We slept on berths. 12 people slept on one 
berth. 1,100 people were put up in such a block. At the selection I believed that later we would 
meet our relatives. On the next day I got to know from a Polish boy who had been there for a 
longer time that the old and the very young people were taken to the crematorium. It was 
then that the burning chimney caught my attention, and I was afraid that we would also be 
taken there. We were selected on the following day according to our professions and they took us 
to a block where they tattooed us. After two days of stay we were taken to Auschwitz. We were 
accommodated in brick houses with more than one level. Everybody had a separate bed with straw 
bags and blankets. We got as much food as we wanted. The food that had been taken away from us 
was also used up in the meals given to us. We did not have to work at all. We lived like that for a 
week, then we were again taken to the bath where we were counted. After that, they took us to 
Javozno on trucks; 50 people were put on a truck. We arrived still on the same day. We were again 
taken to the bath and we were disinfected. We did not work at all for three days, then they assigned 
us to work. My task was to carry bricks. There was a reveille at half past three in the morning, then 
we got breakfast and then an Appell followed, which lasted till 6 or 8 o’clock and it was repeated in 
the afternoon, likewise till 6 or 8 o’clock. Our Blockältester was quite a nice man, but there was one 
who sold for cigarettes the soup that should have been distributed. We were not beaten because we 
were young, but the others were beaten all the more. 
As far as clothes are concerned, we were supplied quite satisfactorily. We changed clothes every 
week; whoever had clothes that were ragged received new ones. Much stress was laid on that: if 
somebody did not change clothes and the Blockältester noticed the smallest tear on his clothes the 
person was punished. 
As I have mentioned already, the older people were beaten very often, as a result of which about 20-
30 people died every day. Capos escorted us to our workplace and when we worked capos and 
foremen stood by us at every step. They hit everybody even when they just walked by us. We went 
to the bath twice a week and at the same time our clothes were disinfected and our underwear 
changed. We had to wash down to the waist every day in the camp. A physician examined us on 
Saturdays and they checked whether anyone of us was infested with lice; if so, that one was taken to 
the bath and his clothes to the disinfection building. 
One night we received an order to pack up because we had to leave from there. The Russian 
frontline was moving closer. The whole bread supplies were distributed and we set off in the dark 
night. We went on foot slowly on the first day. On the following day they hurried us very much. If 
somebody fell only one step behind he was shot down. 4,000 of us set off from Javozno and 1,000 
of us survived. We did not get any kind of food on the way and we could not even sleep. That is 
how we arrived, after much suffering, to Blechhammer. I worked there as a locksmith’s apprentice. 
Our provisions were quite good there and our master was a nice man too. We only had to line up for 
roll call on Sunday afternoons. This went on till 9th May, when the Russians came in and liberated 
us. The German SS people had of course escaped from us beforehand. For the time being, my plan 
is to wait for my brother to arrive. I have met my father and he told me that we would go to 
Palestine.