The person in question has given us the following information:

In May 1944, when the others had already been taken away from the ghetto, I recalled when I had 
been at the Russian frontline as a soldier and I had seen how those of Polish origin had been taken 
away from the country and what had been done to those wretches. So, I decided not to carry that 
through. When I found out that on the following day it would be our transport to be taken from the 
ghetto of Iza, I escaped from the entrainment at night. Five of us escaped and then in the nearby 
forest we found several Jews, who had also escaped from the ghetto. We managed to remain hidden 
in the forest for weeks, and meanwhile we got hold of Christian papers. We went to Huszt, but to 
our bad luck, a woman recognized two of us and reported us to the police. They took us to the 
detective agency. We received nothing to eat there. Then, they tied 50 of us together and took us to 
the counter intelligence office in Nyíregyháza. There, the detectives beat us up terribly with 
dog whips. We spent about two weeks there. There were no more Jews in Nyíregyháza at that time 
and from there we were taken to Debrecen. There were other Jews of the same fate here. We were 
entrained and taken to Auschwitz. 90 of us were travelling in a cattle car and there we could get a 
little water or food only in exchange for clothes. In Kassa the Germans took over; till then military 
gendarmes had escorted us. 
Two days later, upon our arrival in Auschwitz, they took us to the bath right away and there they 
cut our hair, they shaved us and gave us striped prisoner’s clothes. Although I spent only one day 
there, then they took me by truck to Goleso, which was 90 kilometres away from Auschwitz. When 
we arrived there we found that the whole camp consisted of one block; 1,100 people were there and 
everybody had a separate bed with a blanket. Our provisions were quite good, but the food was 
very little compared to the amount of work. We worked in a quarry and the workday was 12 hours 
long. The treatment was very bad; everybody who could beat us. I also attempted to escape there; it 
happened on a Saturday afternoon, I went to fetch water and I fled. Unfortunately I did not succeed; 
I did not expect the control to be so strict and they caught me still on the same day. Whoever got 
within reach beat me and they locked me up for three days. I did not get anything to eat during 
those three days and they did not even open my door. Those days were horrible. There was room 
enough for only one person in the lockup. After three days they took me to be interrogated; there 
were three of us, runaways taken back, and we met there. They kept us locked up for another 
twelve days. They gave us food once a day, but every day at a different time. When the twelve days 
were over they let two of us out and the third one was hanged, because he had escaped 30 
kilometres away. Naturally, the whole camp had to watch the hanging till the end. 
We stayed there till 19th January; from there we went on a four-day march to Sachsenhausen. 
Every three of us received a loaf of bread and nothing else for the journey. If somebody fell behind 
on the way, he was finished.
We stayed in Sachsenhausen only for 5 days; they examined us and the weaker people were taken 
to Bergen-Belsen. The way there was three days long. Following our arrival in Bergen-Belsen I 
was taken to the shoemaker’s workshop already on the second day. Having a task like that I did not 
starve as much as the others. I did not want to see much; I only know that thousands and thousands 
of people were killed there. They died in the dirt of hunger or typhus; there were real heaps of 
cadavers everywhere. 
There I met one of my brothers and my sister. The English liberated us on 15th April, but I stayed 
there up till 8th July. Then, I came home to Budapest with a Czech transport through Prague and 
Pozsony. 
My plans for the future: for the time being I will go home and later I probably go to Palestine.