The person in question has given us the following information:

I moved out from a house with a yellow star into a so-called protected house in 
Sziget Street No. 25. At the beginning, we believed that Swiss letters of 
protection would indeed protect us, but we had to realise soon that the Arrow 
Cross did not respect them at all, and they frequently searched and raided our 
building. The 4th of December, 1944, after one of these raids, they took me away 
from the house. This raid was at 9 am. Afterwards, all the people they picked 
from protected houses had to stand in Szent István Park all day long. Most of 
them also carried a lot of luggage and bedclothes. In the afternoon, having 
walked around for a long time, finally they took us into Teleki Square No. 10. 
We spent the night here completely unsure about the future. The next morning, 
they took us to the railway station of Józsefváros, and entrained us. There were 
71 people in the freight car where I travelled. After ten days of travel we 
arrived in Bergen-Belsen. I got here into a Sonderlager. Rations were not better 
than in the other camp but here we did not have to work and were not beaten. 
Food was very little, while we had long ago run out of supplies taken from home. 
You could get on only if you had some valuables to swap. Later, I got into the 
hospital as a nurse, where I received double portions of dense soup.

When the Americans got closer they emptied the camp. We were supposed to go to 
Theresienstadt so that they could exterminate us but when this project failed 
they got the order to drown the whole trainload of people in the Elbe. However, 
their evil project failed because on the way the Americans surrounded the train 
and we were liberated while staying in the freight cars. By that time, already 
everyone was in an awful condition. Some could not even get off the train on 
their own because long starvation had made them so weak. The Americans watched 
us in dismay. They knew we did not have a good life under the Germans but they 
could not have imagined what they saw.