The person in question has given us the following information:

I left the ghetto of Újpest for the brick factory of Békásmegyer, where I spent 6 days before 
they deported me into Auschwitz with the last transport.

The first of July, we arrived, and they put me into the block of gipsies, where I had to serve as 
a night guard. When I arrived there were still masses of gipsies here, but in the summer they 
were exterminated. Only deported Jews remained. At the end of August, before Jewish feasts, 
there were great selections. I was together with the 13-year-old son of my sister-in-law, whom 
they singled out at selections. They took him away but I helped him get back with the help of 
an Arian Blockältester. At the second selections they took him away again. This time I was 
unable to bring him back and I have not seen him since.

There was a block in Aushwitz where people with university degrees were kept. I spent 
here a long time together with lawyers of Újpest, doctors and architects of Budapest. We lived 
under quite supportable conditions. The cook was a friend of mine from Újpest, and I always 
managed to get some extra portion from him and I tried to help also my comrades. Once a 
week I went to work into the political office of the SS, and I always got a loaf of bread. 

At the end of September, they selected many people in the block. They singled out 170 people 
and took also me into another block but I escaped on the way. I knew that people from these 
blocks would get into crematorium 1 or 2 days later.

I managed to sneak into a transport of 1,500 people, and that was how I arrived in Kaufering. 
I got into a “transport kommando”. We walked 30 kilometres a day. We carried loads, 8-10 of 
us pulled a handcart, we hauled goods in the forest for the construction works of Moll. I had 
no shoes, so I walked barefoot till I managed to obtain a pair of bad shoes with wooden soles 
with the help of a fellow shoemaker. 

In January, I got into a kommando that was constructing the railway. I worked always in the 
open, also in the cold of minus 29 C degrees. We were badly dressed and suffered a lot of 
cold. 

In February, I fell sick and got into the infirmary, where I stayed for a month before they took 
me in Türkheim, where I was also in the infirmary. I got typhus directly before liberation. The 
sick remained there, while the healthy were taken away already at the beginning of April. 

The 27th of April, Americans liberated us.

After liberation I was carried in Bad-Wörishofen, a beautiful Bavarian bath resort, where I 
stayed in hospital. 

At the end of June, the hospital was dissolved, and I was transported into Kempten, where we 
stayed in barracks that had been transformed into a hospital of former prisoners. I already 
worked here as a doctor. There were two of us Hungarian Jewish doctors together with a 
German doctor.
At the beginning of September, we set off and came home via Prague travelling for three 
weeks.