The persons in question have given us the following information:

The father of aforementioned Eszter Müller owned a prosperous variety store, and a house on 
her own, while the Davidovits were farmers, and also lived in their own house.

The last day of Easter, it was proclaimed that nothing could be bought from Jews. Later, it 
was announced that Jews could not leave the village, and that we should be packed by Easter 
day and the luggage should weigh no more than 50 kilos. However, military gendarmes and 
policemen came only Thursday. They encircled the village and started making an inventory of 
valuables and at the same time rounding up people – beginning from the end of the village. 
While we were packing they kept hurrying us but we left only Tuesday. 
Aforesaid Eszter Müller: I had escaped into another village before they would have taken 
away Jews. I met here another escaping family and we prepared a bunker in the woods and 
stayed there for two weeks. We lived on the biscuits we had taken from home and sneaked 
into the village by night to obtain bread and food. Two weeks later, one morning they shined a 
light into the bunker and made holes on it with a stick so we already knew that someone 
betrayed us. We were waiting worried till the evening but no one came. Next afternoon, we 
heard voices again from the vicinity. They started shooting and cried that we had to come out. 
At the beginning we were scared to come out. We told them there were 18 of us. 
Nevertheless, we came out and saw that they were leventes and officials of the village. They 
took us into the village where we spent a night. Next afternoon, they handed us over to the 
gendarmerie. We spent a night in gendarmes’ garrison before they escorted us into the ghetto 
in Aknaszlatina. Here I met my parents and two weeks later we left together.
The 23rd of May, we arrived in Auschwitz. On arrival they separated us, took us into the 
baths, cut our hair off, led us into Lager C, from there to Lager B 2, and we ended up in the 
kitchen of the Czech lager, where we worked from 3 am till 10 pm, later until 6-8.

At the beginning we had to line up for roll calls as well, but when we were in the kitchen only 
in the afternoons. Our rations were quite nice but work was very hard; often we had to carry 
sacks weighing 80 kilos.

The 14th of January, we worked in the night shift. We had to cook also the lunch and we set 
off on foot right after breakfast. We walked for two days and nights before they put us in open 
freight cars, 120 of us in each. We were overtly crammed, snow fell in and soaked our bread, 
but it got also stolen on the way. Quite a number of people died before we finally arrived one 
night into Bergen-Belsen. Here again we worked in the kitchen from 2 am till 10, and they 
also beat us for all trivial reasons. At the end rations got worse, for three weeks we did not see 
any bread at all.

Two or three days before the English arrived we found the kitchen robbed, and 10 prisoner lay 
shot in front of the kitchen. A Hungarian soldier had shot them. The English liberated us the 
15th of April. Later, we moved into another block and worked in the kitchen only when we 
felt like. Soon, they carried us into Bergen, where we spent two weeks, from here we went to 
Celle, and finally to Budapest with a Czech transport via Pozsony and Prague.