The person in question has given us the following information:

When the Germans occupied the country in April 1944, they ordered the Jews to wear a yellow star and there was another order that the Jews had to go into the ghetto. I tried my best to avoid this. I received a certificate from a local NCO stating that I had to go to Budapest to acquire material for his boots. Naturally I did not return, but I went into hiding in Budapest. 

I was volunteering for a labour service company at the end of October and joined it in Kőbánya.  On November 2 we were set off on foot for Germany. We marched to Hegyeshalom and we were entrained there. Until then Hungarian soldiers guarded us; the company had its own kitchen and our rations were decent. We were accommodated in Vértestarján. One evening the village burst into flames and the Jews were blamed for it. The two SS companies that were stationed there wanted to execute us. We were already rounded up and lined up next to the wall; the machine guns were ready and we were trembling with fear, waiting for our death. For our great luck, our captain arrived in the last minute and told the Germans that he had to account for these men in Germany. Even with this turn of events, 90 percent of the company was injured and we had 12 casualties too, since they were shooting at us and beating us all night long. They thoroughly plundered us as well.    

From Hegyeshalom we went to Neuengamme near Hamburg. We spent three or four days there, then the transport was taken to work to the Stülkewerk ship factory in Hamburg. I was in the night shift. We could not sleep, since there were air raids night and day. The reveille was at 5 am. We got coffee for breakfast, half a litre of soup at noon, 20 decagrams of bread in the evening and Zulage, but the latter was taken away by the foremen. We worked 12 hours a day and lived in the factory. In March we were taken to another factory, to the Deutsches Werk, since this factory was totally destroyed by the bombings. After two weeks this factory was bombarded as well. Once during work there was a big air raid and 250 of us went to a shelter, where the SS beat us half-dead. The work was over; for three days we were deprived of not only food, but water as well. 

When the Americans were approaching, we were taken by railway to St. Posten, 80 kilometres from Hamburg. Fortunately there we were together with English and French prisoners, who treated us very well. The food was terrible; the hunger was so immense that one prisoner took food out of the mouth of the other. On April 8 the Americans arrived and liberated us. I fell ill with typhoid fever. From the camp we were taken to Farge, 45 kilometres from Bremen. We spent a few weeks there until we recovered.