The person in question has given us the following information: 


Ten thousand Jews lived in Ungvár; they were mostly craftsmen and tradesmen. There were beauticians, textile merchants, bakers, doctors, lawyers, engineers and so on among them and they lived under good financial circumstances. My parents owned a men’s clothing shop and we had everything we needed. I did not go to work, but I helped at home. I had an older brother, who owned four houses.
In 1938, when the Hungarians came in, the antisemitic measures began and we suffered many insults and abuses.
In 1943 the shops, factories, houses and trade licenses of the Jews were taken away. The chief notary and the deputy clerk implemented those decrees. Since March 1944 we had been marked with yellow stars. We were treated very roughly. For example, if the colour of the yellow star was not right or the star was not sewn on properly, we were punished and beaten right away.
I remember that the soldiers were marching through the city singing everywhere: “Hey you Jew, hey you stinky Jew, damn you, what are you doing here?” We were sitting at home listening to that and we were unable to do anything against it. Later on we were allowed to go out only until 7 in the evening. 
The other residents were happy about that. They looked at our misery calmly and told us that everything would be taken away from us.
There was a baker named Nándor Göttler, who chased a woman out of her own shop, and he took away not only her shop, but her house as well. 
The Supporting Office was supposed to help us, but they could do hardly anything. Moreover once they were almost shot dead in the synagogue when they were robbed of their money.
The ghetto decree came into force on April 6, 1944. The notary had the gendarmes announce that by 5 o’clock everybody had to be packed up having enough food for one week, a few clothes, but nothing else. Then we were escorted into the ghetto. We handed over our keys, and while we were in the ghetto, our flats were emptied.
The ghetto was in a brick factory. The Jews in the ghetto locked behind the high board fence were guarded by German soldiers and policemen from outside and Jewish policemen from inside.
The ghetto was very crowded, because all the Jews from Ungvár and the neighbouring 31 villages (about 30,000 people) were taken there. We were crammed together like animals, we were hardly able to walk in there, and on top of that, the rain was pouring into the room we lived in.
The Supporting Office provided us with food. We were given a little soup and 100 grams of bread per person.
We did not have to work.
We tried to escape, but there were a lot of soldiers with loaded weapons standing around the ghetto all night long.
In the beginning we were told that we would work in factories near Ungvár, which we believed.
There were deaths, but I cannot remember how many.
There were no lootings, because we were allowed to take almost nothing into the ghetto, therefore there was not much left they could have taken away from us. 
On May 23, 1945 we were entrained. There were 90 of us in a small cattle car. We cried a lot, because we were not given water and were tormented by thirst, especially the children. Many died of thirst; by the time we arrived, 10 people had died. We were not given a bucket for the purpose of a toilet either. The windows were nailed shut with boards. They promised to give us water in exchange for leather gloves and gold. One girl gave her hidden gold ring to the guards, but she did not get any water, and they even threatened to shoot her.
We were allowed to take only two or three pieces of clothing with us. If someone had clothes of good quality, nice towels or suitcases, the Hungarians took them all, and they even tore our clothes open and were searching for money sewed in them.
The train went towards Kassa; that time we already knew where we were being taken. The cattle cars were not opened during the whole journey; they were opened only in Auschwitz. As far as I know, the Germans took us over at Kassa. Escape was not possible.
The train stopped in Auschwitz. A doctor was standing there and he directed the fit, beautiful girls to the right and the slimmer or lame girls whom he disapproved to the left. The young, 18-20-year-old women with children and the elderly people were directed to the left and taken to the crematorium.
I was directed to the right and was sent into camp C. Before that we were taken to the bath where we were completely undressed and shaved. I was totally naked for half a year.
In block 26 we lived in a small chamber. There were three beds, one over the other and 14 of us lay on bare planks; we coiled up like snakes. 
We were not given anything to eat or drink for about four days. On the first day we had to get up at 2 in the morning and line up for roll call until 10 in the morning. We had to do it again from 2 in the afternoon until 10 in the evening. That was the same every day. If they pleased,  they said that we were one person less or more and then we had to kneel. They told us that there were partisans or Russian spies among us, but naturally it was not true, it was only an excuse to punish us. We had to stand outdoors naked in all kinds of weather, in rain or snow, while we were constantly counted and beaten.
Each day about 200 or more people died in the camp and 2000 bodies were taken to the crematorium to be burned, and that is only what I am aware of. I know these things because the crematorium was next to us; it was separated from us only by a wired fence.
On the way to Auschwitz there were Christmas trees in big flames, and then in the camp I saw little children being thrown into the fire alive, terribly crying and yelling. 
There were selections every day. First they told us that the selected persons would be taken to a better place to work, for example a chocolate factory, a salami factory, a clothes factory or a warehouse, but this was not true. They were misled and then taken to the crematorium. Dr Mengele performed the selections. 
People were dying off like flies. Many of them starved to death. They just fainted and died. People of the new transports were passing us, and we showed them our shaved heads and we used gestures to tell them we were very hungry. Then they threw some bread over the wire fence, but if the guards noticed that, they shot the prisoner on spot. 
They killed fat people and made soap from their body fat. Brooms were made from the hair and toothpaste was made from the bones of the victims. I saw all those things myself. Those factories were underground and Poles worked there. They were burned by the SS together with those working in the crematorium, so that they could not tell anyone what they had seen and done. The SS guards knocked the prisoner girls’ eyes out and they were throwing sticks at them. The girls were made to stand under hot water and were beaten until their bloody flesh could be seen. After that they smeared them with acrid soap and chased them outside naked where they froze to death in the cold. The guards had huge and snapping dogs and they let them tear the prisoners to pieces and eat them. 
After two weeks our food became so bad that we were given soup pebbles in it. That was all we got once a day, and one week later we got a one-kilogram loaf of bread divided into six pieces.
We were locked up and two steps behind the wire fence there was the crematorium. As I have mentioned before, I saw everything, so they wanted to burn me as well. That is why I did not get a number. But first they burned those who were sent to the left side and my turn never came.
Sometimes we got clothes for ourselves, but they were taken away from us time to time when we were disinfected.
If we got a little food or water, we almost killed each other for that, because everybody wanted to get a bite so much.
We were not allowed to go out to relieve ourselves, only once at dawn when there were no transports arriving who could have thrown something over the fence for us. We could have given them everything if they had let us out, because we were seriously ill. 
The lice virtually ate us, because we could not wash ourselves or our clothes.
From Auschwitz I was transported to Altenburg where I worked in an ammunition factory. We worked 12 hours a day: one week in night shift and the other week in day shift. We were not starving that much, because we were given turnip soup and a little bread. We became full of pimples and purulent wounds due to lack of vitamins and many prisoners died of blood poisoning. 
There were selections in Altenburg as well. Once an iron nail was driven through my finger and it became infected and because of this they wanted to take me as well. From another camp they indeed took away a couple of thousand people. There were heavy bombings as well.
There was a very bad supervisor in the factory I worked for. He kept shouting and telling us that our performance was poor. If the Lagerführer saw that somebody’s head was bandaged, he beat up that person severely right away. I went through so much bad things that I could not believe that I would ever see the daylight again.
We went to the factory at 6 in the morning, always in groups of five. If the line was not straight or they found another excuse, we were beaten. Since there was only two sinks and everybody wanted to wash themselves, there was always a huge jostling. We were never able to finish bathing, because the alarm always went off before all of us were ready and we had to go to the bunker. We stayed around the factories so that the factories would not be bombed. They hoisted a flag to indicate that prisoners were there and the place should not be bombed. But the airmen did not care about that. When we came up from the bunker, we were ordered to go for our lunch, which was some tasteless liquid and sometimes we had to wait four hours to get it, therefore we could not sleep. We always ran somewhere, here or there, to have a bath, for the lunch, to the factory and so on. If there was an alarm in the factory and the working hours were 10 or even 2 minutes short, we had to go back after the alarm and work the missing time off.
We were always scolded, called blockheads and threatened with transport and crematorium.
I was an inspector in the factory. I mean I checked if the products that were handed over to me were good enough and if they were the proper size.
I was very desperate, since they could do anything with me. I had no mother or father any more and I told myself that they could take me to the crematorium, because my life was worth nothing without them. My older brother was a young man, but it did not count there. It did not matter for them if people were young or old, a hundred or one, it was all the same to them.
We were constantly beaten and told we were not working hard enough, because they needed more and more work to kill the English and the Russians. We had to work until the last minute. When the English were approaching and were only 15 kilometres away, our transport was driven further on foot. We had to march at night, without any water or bread, barefoot. We were told that we would be taken to a better place, but instead they took us to Chemnitz to kill us. Pits had been dug and tanks stood there ready to murder us. Gestapo men and women escorted us and there were many transports, about 3000-4000 people. We were marching at night and reached a German city where they herded us into a chamber and were shooting at us. I was shot at four times. We had to be silent, because warplanes were bombing heavily. We were constantly beaten. Then the overseers began to escape one by one by cars and motorcycles. They kept on telling us to march three more kilometres, because there would be a car waiting for us with bread. That way we were coaxed to go on and on, because Himmler had given the order that all the prisoners had to be killed. We told them that we would rather die than go on, and then we sat down in the field and stayed there, because we were terribly hungry and tired. In the field we found raw potatoes and turnips and we started to eat. Afterwards we went on, and in a barn of a German house we found carrots, and we stole and ate them. We dared to steal because we heard the siren in Mirau, which meant that the English were there, and we were three kilometres away from them. The Germans chased us out of that barn, then we ran into another one. We were sitting in there until Friday evening when the English came, and that is when we flew a white flag and came out to welcome them, throwing flowers and waving shawls. They were very happy to see us and gave us large chests filled with chocolate, tinned food, liquor and cigarettes. They immediately took us to farmers, who had about 30 cows. We received a lot of good things there.
These were my own experiences.