The person in question has given us the following information

We were entrained at the brickyard of Munkács, and we arrived in Auschwitz after a journey 
that lasted for 3 days and nights. In Auschwitz Dr. Mengele, the physician of the camp, 
selected us. I was holding my 5-month-old son in my arms; Dr. Mengele took him from my 
hands and gave him to my mother standing by me. She was a 56-year-old woman with grey 
hair. The German soldier standing next to me told me that I would get the child back in two 
hours. I was restlessly waiting for the hours to pass; when I was sent to the block and I 
inquired at the Blockälteste about my child, she slapped me on the face instead of answering. 
As I got to know, my poor child and my mother had been put on the right side, that is, they 
had been taken to the gas chamber on that day when we arrived. They had been burnt in the 
crematorium. 

We did not have to work in Auschwitz; we were lining up for roll call all day long. In rain and wind 
and snow we were standing there just the same. It was very difficult to wash, because the water 
pipes were locked most of the time during the day; as a consequence of that a large number of 
people were infested with itching. I remember that 2 of my female comrades became mad 
because of the torments, while others ran into the wire fence, which was electrified all the 
time. 
Five weeks later they entrained us and took us to Stutthof. We did not have to work at all, but there 
was a reveille at 5 o’clock. We lived under better circumstances in the beginning, but later the 
conditions became worse and worse. Polish Aryan men kept beating us without the smallest reason. 
Then we were taken to Praust, where we arrived completely famished. Our work was to build an 
airport, which involved levelling, using pick axes and pushing heavy iron trolleys. We were treated 
in a very strict manner: if somebody had a little rest while working, or if she talked with the French 
prisoners, her number was noted down. When we finished working, the one was taken before the 
Oberaufseherin, who sentenced her to 25 blows, or her hair was cut completely. We worked in two 
shifts and we generally worked 9-10 hours a day. We starved very much and a large number of 
people died from complete exhaustion. Some people got festering wounds because of sunburn; 
these received medical treatment in the infirmary. They were selected every six weeks, and they 
were taken to Stutthof to be burnt in the crematorium. In early January the camp was evacuated and 
we were set off on foot. Marching meant a terrible torment for us; most of the people fell behind 
because they could not bear it, and they were shot down by the SS. I escaped with a group and we 
managed to get to Héla in Poland, where the Russian troops liberated us.