The person in question has given us the following information:

The Arrow Cross caught me the seventh time in November 1944. I was hiding with Christian 
papers and my “friends” reported against me. Earlier I managed to slip from their hands six 
times, but the seventh time I came off badly, now they had two guards to watch over me so I could 
not escape. They took me to the brickyard in Óbuda. On 1st December we were entrained with a 
bigger transport at Józsefváros railway station. They set us off towards Sachsenhausen. 84 people 
were crammed into a sealed cattle car and the entire provisions for the journey consisted of half of a 
loaf of bread and some margarine. In Zürndorf we were handed over to the SS and we continued 
our journey to Sachsenhausen.

We arrived on 10th December. When we were bathed they took away all our clothes and they 
dressed us up in shabby, ridiculous rags; I, for example, received only a pair of cutaway trousers, 
but no shirt whatsoever. Then we were taken to the place of horror: the quarantine, which was 
located in the hangar of the Henckel airplane factory. 
We were lying there in horrible cold without any clothes and besides we starved. Having no 
tableware whatsoever we ate with our hands. The SS men were inhumanely hitting everybody. As a 
result of the starving, the cold and the maltreatment of the SS the number of deaths was 25-30 a 
day. At Christmas they took me back to Sachsenhausen and assigned me to work in the SS 
armaments. We had to work 14-16 hours a day in day and night shifts. They tortured us to death. 
They killed crowds of people with various means, there were hangings and the crematorium 
worked too.

I was put in a Sonderkommando; ten of us were taken to work in the crematorium. I knew that 
when we finish the work they would execute us, just as everybody else working there, because they 
had seen much and they knew much. I managed to escape from there on the first day. The others 
were executed 14 days later. Hanging was an everyday occurrence and people were punished with 
hanging for the smallest transgression, like stealing bread and the like. Polish prisoners executed 
that in public, on the place where Appells were held. 

On 18th April we evacuated, threatened by the forging ahead of the Russians. They took us towards 
the west. The horror of that “death march” was beyond comprehension. We were marching for two 
weeks completely ragged, most of us barefoot, while our provisions consisted of some potatoes that 
we received every fifth or sixth day. Three quarters of our group of 3-4,000 people died on the way; 
they were killed by hunger, complete exhaustion and most of them were executed. I fell seriously 
ill; the wooden boots blistered my foot and I had to go on marching barefoot with a fever of 41 
degrees and sepsis on my sole. They drove us back and forth aimlessly, but they could not slip out 
of the ring of the Russians. On 18th April we fell into the Russians’ hands in terrible condition. I 
was taken to Karlsdorf, where I received excellent medical treatment in a hospital.