The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived in Nagybánya and participated in the work of the Communist Party of Transylvania. We organised our activity illegally. When the Germans occupied the country in the spring of 1944, I came to Budapest where I rent a flat in Nagymező Street. Of course I did not wear a yellow star. 

At the beginning of November I was identity checked by two detectives and taken to a counter-intelligence office, where I was tortured with rubber truncheons and an electric device. I was beaten up so badly that they had to take me to Garrison Hospital no. 10. Here I shared my prison cell with known actor László Békeffy, who was sentenced to 15 years of imprisonment by the Margit Boulevard court for participating in leftwing movements. 

I spent one and half weeks there, then I was taken back to the counter-intelligence office. From there I was taken first to Budaörs then to Komárom. From here I was deported to Dachau with a so-called prison transport, which included men and women as well. 

In Dachau we spent two weeks in a quarantine camp. We were treated well: we got out daily rations and we could rest as long as we wished. 

From Dachau I was taken to Schörzingen, which is 80 kilometres away from Stuttgart. Of course I used my Christian documents, therefore I was considered to be a Gentile prisoner. Besides me there was only one more Jew who made his way there with fake documents as well; the others were Ukrainian, Polish and Austrian prisoners. 

We worked in a mine: it was like a coalmine except here oil was mined. We worked in knee-high water the whole day. We could not carry on working here for long; many died. After two and a half months I was taken to hospital too due to exhaustion. We suffered from hunger; we got food only twice a day: one litre of soup in the beginning, later they decreased it to three-quarters of a litre. Plus we received 15 decagrams of bread and margarine in the evening.  Our capos were German ex-cons; they beat us all the time. We also had a Lagerältester, who hanged the Russians if they stole a potato or a turnip because they were hungry. 

In March the frontline was approaching and I was taken to Allach with the transport of sick. The Americans liberated us here on April 29. 

After being liberated I went to Munich. I was there until September 15 and when a Romanian transport left, I joined it and came to Budapest.