The person in question has given us the following information:

We lived in Munkács. I agreed with 20 friends of mine to volunteer for labour service in order to avoid deportation. However, they refused to give a certificate to us. We settled with an official at the municipal authority that we would go into the ghetto and then he would help us to escape. We stayed in the ghetto for a week, and then they came for us and took us to the city hall. There they forced us to eat three pieces of garlic, undressed us and beat us up severely. Then we were taken into the brickyard in Munkács. My friend, Géza Schönfeld, beaten nearly to death, could not cover the two kilometres to the brickyard and therefore he was shot dead on the way. Out of 20, another nine friends of mine died in the brickyard due to the injuries they suffered. We were made to bury them.
They entrained us on May 24 and took us to Auschwitz. We arrived at midnight. They took us to the bathhouse where they shaved our heads and gave us striped clothes. Then they took me into a camp with my father and younger brother. We were received with beating and pushing. The following day those who had qualification in any trade were told to report for work. We did so: I was sent to block 7 and my father to block 3. As I was informed later, my mother was taken into block 10.
Four days later we went to Fünfteichen. We stayed there with prisoners of various nationalities; they treated us very well. We worked in a factory where the foremen were good to us too. Our daily food supply was 500 grams of bread, one litre of rich soup at noon and half a litre in the evening. Two and a half months later I got ill and they took me into infirmary. I was lying ill for two weeks. I received good treatment there, just like at my workplace. The other prisoners received food parcels from home and they shared them with us. 
We went from Fünfteichen to Kietlitz, near Breslau at the beginning of June. We worked at construction sites in a burnt-down forest. Unlike in Fünfteichen, we were treated very badly here. We were practically starving. Forty to fifty people died every day. Six people were given two kilograms of bread. Besides, we got three-quarters of a litre of soup. That was all, because, as we were informed later, the camp leaders took the rest of Zulage that had been also issued for us, but we never actually received it. Our camp was in the forest as well. We did not have the opportunity to wash ourselves, because everything was frozen. We could only make ourselves clean with snow sometimes. A plenty of people fell ill with diarrhoea. Cold and famine were devastating the camp too. We could not wash ourselves, but if they found lice in the hair of any prisoner, they shaved a stripe into his hair so as to disfigure him. It happened every week. The Russians liberated us on February 10, 1945. After liberation we went to the nearest village that was 10 kilometres away. We acquired some clothes and food there. We also bathed, which made us feel like human beings again.
We stayed in the village until March 10. We could acquire a lot of food by ourselves and we got food from the Russians too. We set off for Poland as soon as we could find a train. On the way I fell ill and then I was lying to hospital in Poland for a month. After my recovery I left for home with a Czechoslovakian transport.
After staying in Budapest for a couple of days, I am going to leave for Munkács and I will wait for my family there. Meanwhile I was separated from my father and brother, since we were scattered to different transports.