The person in question has given us the following information:

 A few streets of Érsekújvár were designated for the purpose of the ghetto. We could still 
bring here whatever we wanted to, and we were given 5-6 days to move in. However, as 
soon as all of us arrived we were transferred all into the brick factory. Here we were already 
strictly guarded and we could bring here only small packs. Many escaped still from the first 
ghetto but they were captured. Rich people were beaten up so hard that they were taken to 
hospital. Only a few of us had a place in the drying oven of the brick factory, most of the 
people, all Jews of the neighbouring area stayed in the open, day and night. There was no 
water. After a week of misery 75 people were entrained in a freight car, and three days later 
we arrived in Auschwitz.
At Auschwitz we were separated from our relatives. I was dispossessed of all my 
belongings, clothes, and they cut my hair. By the time I left the baths I was a completely 
different person. Not even a human being, just a ### among the others. All the time was 
spent on roll calls. One could see the flames of the crematorium day and night, and 
smell the stink of smoke, scorched grease and flesh. One night, I had a terrible 
experience. I woke up to the noise of numerous cars arriving and to the barks of hounds. 
There was a great turmoil, people cried “Hilfe!” “Mutter!”, and sobbed. It was awful to 
listen to it, while we could not even leave the barrack. We just watched out and saw the 
flames painting the sky red. The day after, we got to know that they had burnt 10,000 
gipsies. The sick were put on a truck naked, cadavers were placed next to them and they 
were carried into the gas chamber. Dr Mengele often came into the barrack and made 
sure we kept the place clean. He was very kind but nevertheless we were scared of 
him. I carried food from the kitchen into the barrack, and therefore I received double 
portions of soup. In the middle of August, there were selections again. In the heat of an 
August day we were standing naked in the yard for hours, and then we had to pass in 
front of Dr Mengele. If he did not like someone for some reason he would send her to 
the gas chamber, while he selected me and many other women with relatively strong 
bodies for a transport. They led us to another camp, and everyone got a blanket. They 
cried “Alle Huren nach hinten”, and we were led into the baths. The following day we got 
pants, nightgowns, clean clothes and we were entrained.
 There were only 50 of us in a car, so we travelled relatively comfortably to Allendorf 
/Hessen/. When we arrived here we looked so badly that they said we were too weak to do 
work, and for 2-3 weeks they kind of fattened us. We got cooked pasta, cabbage and milk. 
The Lagerführer said: "You get it in order to endure even for 4-5 weeks. Otherwise the 
factory would soon finish you.” We worked for an ammunition plant. Work was very hard 
because we had to lift heavy bombs. It was also dangerous because we had to fill bombs 
with poisonous gases. Reveille was at 4.30 in the morning. We worked from 6 am till 6 pm, 
and it was already 7 pm when we arrived in the camp. In addition to hard work, there were 
roll calls twice a day. Beating people was also prohibited. Yet, poor supplies and heavy 
work destroyed a great number of people. When the Americans got closer to us we had to 
start walking. Seven of us could share a loaf of bread and a little margarine, which was 
distributed for the trip. We walked only at night. On the second night they made us 
understand that the people who fell behind would not be punished. At the beginning, we did 
not trust them but later I fell behind with two of my friends. We remained for two days in 
the forest before we ventured out onto the highway, where we met Americans.