The persons in question have given us the following information:

20 Jewish families lived in Szobránc. Most of them had a little piece of land, where they 
worked with their families, and they also had a little house. We also had a family house and 
some land, on which everything grew that we needed. We lived with our parents and 5 
younger brothers and sisters. One morning gendarmes suddenly came into our house and the 
other Jewish houses, and we had to pack immediately and go to the ghetto. We were only 
allowed to take food with us. Gendarmes were very wicked to us, they kept pushing and 
rushing us. Before they put us on trucks, they searched us, and if they found money or jewels 
on you they would beat you up. We were taken to the Ungvár brick factory. We stayed there 
for about 3 weeks guarded by gendarmes and policemen. We could have escaped but we did 
not want to leave our parents. They told us we would be taken to work within the country and 
the families would not be separated. Gendarmes searched us again before we were entrained, 
and women were especially brutally examined. There were 78 people in our freight car. They 
gave us no water. We suffered horribly from thirst and the heat. We travelled for two and a 
half days. During the journey, Germans took charge of us in Kassa and told us to hand over 
all valuables. Of course, we still had some hidden things, and some of us were afraid and 
handed them over.

We arrived in Auschwitz in the evening. We were immediately separated from our parents, 
from my husband (Erzsébet Weisner). They took us to the baths, disinfected us, cut our hair 
off, bathed us, and after hours of standing they gave us shabby clothes in return for our good 
ones and drove us into a barrack. I got to Camp C. Treatment was horrible. Supervisors would 
beat us up for everything. Food was very bad. We starved a lot. If you had some assignment 
you were in an easier situation. We knew someone in the kitchen, who would always provide 
us with some food. We could always see the burning chimneys of the crematorium from our 
camp. Back then we already knew what selections meant. There were selections every day in 
one of the camps, and they gave us the worst anxiety. Whoever could would hide. We would 
often hide in the kitchen, under the cooker, among the potatoes, some people climbed up the 
chimney or through the window to another camp. It was impossible to predict the reasons 
why people were taken to gas chamber. Dr Mengele often chose healthy people in good 
condition. He simply waved his hand, and that meant death. We had to get up at half past two 
every morning and line up for roll call. We would stand for hours, often until noon. If 
someone fainted, they poured water over her, then she had to line up again and stand. When it 
was raining we had no place to be, we could only sit huddled up on the bunks, because there 
were three of them one above the other so close to each other that one could not sit straight. 
Finally, once when they were selecting people for work, I got into Camp B-2. This was a 
weaving mill, where we worked 12 hours a day. At dawn and in the evening we had to line up 
for roll call, but we were not selected any more. The supervisors were capos. These were 
German convicts, mostly murderers and robbers or something similarly serious, and these 
were given the job to supervise prisoners, and they would treat us as it could be expected. 
Auschwitz was evacuated in January 1945. They gave us a little food for the journey, and we 
walked for four days and four nights, then we arrived at a railway station somewhere, and 
here they put us into open freight cars and took us to Ravensbrück.

Ravensbrück was a huge camp. Originally it was designed for 10,000 people, but at this time 
there were already 50,000 prisoners there. We got to a punishment block for unknown 
reasons. There was space for 400 people in the tent, but they squashed 1,000 people in there. 
For a week we had nothing at all to eat. There were prostitutes in this block, who would beat 
us because we occupied their space. Once, the Lagerführer visited us and beat us up with a 
belt. We were locked up in the block for three weeks and then we were taken to work with a 
smaller transport. We did not know where we were going, but we were happy to stay together 
and to leave this block, from where we were not allowed to step out except in groups and only 
to the toilet in the morning and the evening, and where these awful women were. 

We ended up in Neustadtglewe. This was quite a new camp. There was not even a kitchen, so 
when we arrived, we had no food for a week. Afterwards, when things developed a little, they 
gave us a small piece of bread and water. They gave us no cooked meal for still a long time. 
We lived in wooden barracks, which, as we were the first occupants, were completely clean. 
They put 80 people in a barrack, so that we could only lie closely pressed against each other. 
We could never have a proper rest, because if someone wanted to turn, it was a public issue: 
the whole company had to sit up and turn. Treatment was not too bad. They would only beat 
us occasionally. Food, however, was all the worse. We starved a lot. Daily rations were 100 
grams of bread and turnip soup, in which there was neither grease nor salt. We were assigned 
to do work in the garden, so sometimes we could get hold of a turnip, some raw potatoes or 
other plants, which we ate in secret. On the 12th of April, Russians liberated us.

Unfortunately, we already know that we cannot expect our parents to return. Now, we would 
only like to hear about our brothers and sisters or wait for them to return. Later, we want to 
emigrate to Palestine with those of them who have survived.