The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on October 5, 1942 in Kőszeg where I stayed until December 13. Sergeant Zsupán from Nagykanizsa made every effort to torture us. For example he did not allow us to wear gloves during the training that lasted for hours and therefore the hands of at least half of the 300 people became frostbitten.
Our commander was Captain László Fükő. All the members of the other companies got leave permits, but it was impossible at our company. It was forbidden even to receive parcels from home. If we went into a house to buy some food because we were very hungry, we were locked up in a dark cell.
Company doctor Dr Vásárhelyi always sent us back to our workplace, no matter how ill we were and declared that nothing was wrong with us and we were capable of working. Upon that, of course, our commander locked us up in the detention room for days and we did not get any food there. In his opinion we reported ill even though we were healthy, just because we were lazy. Therefore we did not dare to see the doctor any more and we rather worked in feverish and weakened condition as well as with frostbitten hands and feet. Our doctor did not even have any bandage. Doing all kind of dirty work, my frostbitten hands suppurated and festered. I was taken in the military hospital in Szombathely with my three brothers-in-arms. I was lying ill there until January 27. After an operation I recovered, but my fist has remained numb and the pain still lingers on.
I was assigned to Várpalota where I worked at the railway until March 12. My company went further, but I was sent back to Kőszeg. The old methods still prevailed there. When I received a parcel from home, I was locked up in the detention room for 30 days under aggravated conditions. I was sent to Drávadiós as a clerk on December 5. On January 18 we went to Holyathin, in Carpatho-Ruthenia. We worked in a forest and our commander was a decent man. We went to Poland on foot on May 2 and we arrived in Ludvikovka two days later. Shortly after that, engineer Lieutenant Wagner became our commander; he made us work as if we had been animals. He was shooting among us just for fun.
Even those who collapsed were not allowed to go home. We had to work until complete exhaustion. We went back to Sloboda in July. We were building roads there for 12 weeks. We arrived there in dire condition. Three young men from the company were not able to leave Holyathin at all. We were told that they would follow us on a cart, but they never arrived. A soldier called Miklós Jankó, who stayed behind with them, arrived the following day and told us that he had shot dead the young men (namely Elek Telts from Érsekújvár, Lajos Pirnbaum from Kapuvár and a third one) after he had forced them to dig their own graves. They were begging for their lives, but he was untouched by that. It happened around August 18.
We went to Poland again. The journey lasted for three days. We were building roads and barracks in Viskow until September 11. Then we went to Senatschow where we spent 10 days. We were building roads for the withdrawing troops.
We started to withdraw too. We marched until we reached the Carpathians. A lot of us lagged behind and some of them were captured, but most of them were shot dead. We were marching like that until the beginning of December, when we arrived in Kuzmitcha, Slovakia. We were assigned to German sappers and we were digging trenches. Those Germans treated us badly, but if compared to the Hungarian guards, it seemed to be good.
We departed again and we marched to Bánréve. We were entrained there and travelled for 12 days. We got food only twice along the way, at first in Pozsony. There was no water at all. They opened up the cars in order to let us to relieve ourselves only once a day or even not at all. We were escorted by gendarmes, who treated us as badly as they could. A lieutenant from Ózd, whose name unfortunately I do not remember, was especially active in setting the gendarmes against us. We worked in Kópháza until March 26. A lot of labour servicemen were shot dead while working there.
We were taken to Burgenland on a ##-day-long march. Before we reached a village, our guards had gone forward to inform the SS that stationed there about the arrival of Jewish labour servicemen. They took care of our reception, indeed. We passed through the villages of Loretto and Sant Margaret at night. Groups of women from Budapest were marching along with us. The SS were beating us indiscriminately with pickaxes and rifles. They were shooting at us too. We heard terrible yelling and crying, but after that everybody fell silent and the killing went on in deathly silence. The road was full of dead bodies and wounded people were crying and moaning. We were stepping on people as we were rushing forward. They hit my back with a pickaxe, but I was strong enough to move further. There were SS men in other villages too. They also shot among us and the road was full of corpses.
Four days later they entrained us and took us to Mauthausen. We travelled for eight days, during which we got food only twice and no water at all. Eighteen of us were crammed into a compartment set for eight passengers.
I spent two weeks in Mauthausen and then we set off for Günskirchen. Those who left the column to pick a little grass to satisfy their hunger were shot dead. The 16-18 year-old boys who escorted us enjoyed shooting at targets. The targets, however, were always us.
In Günskirchen 1500 of us lived in a barrack. We were crammed so much that we were nearly sitting on each other. We almost lost our minds because of the starvation and the lice. After three horrible weeks the Americans liberated us.
The road was full of deportees when we departed. Everyone went to whatever direction they wanted. I went to Wells where I rested until July 12. Then they took me to Linz by car. From there I went to Dornach where I started to walk. I covered 120 kilometres on foot and then I got on a train.
After I returned to Hungary I learned that I was left all by myself. My parents and siblings were killed in the gas chambers of Auschwitz.
I would like to go home and run a farm again.