The person in question has given us the following information: 

Approximately 200 Jewish families lived in Técső, which is a small village. None of them were very well off. They were ordinary farmers, agricultural workers, all poor people with large families, who lived in a very frugal way. We did not listen to the radio or read newspapers and therefore the news of the world did not reach us. I was a carrier and I owned a wagon with two horses and a small house.
It took me by surprise when one morning gendarmes and leventes entered our house and ordered us to pack up immediately and follow them to the ghetto. We could take everything we wanted, with the exception of jewellery, money, silver candelabras and so on. The ghetto was set up in a very small section of the village. Twelve to fourteen people were crammed together into a room. Nobody provided us with food and we could eat only the food we brought in. The ghetto was surrounded by a fence and gendarmes and leventes guarded us. Therefore it was impossible to escape. The gendarmes encouraged us and even announced it 
in the ghetto that we would not be taken away but stay in Técső to work. There was no point in attempting to flee, because I hoped I would be able to stay together with my wife and my little child. They were beating us often and for long. A levente complained about an old man, because he did not stand in attention by his command and the old man was beaten up severely for that. We spent six weeks in the ghetto; we did not work at all during that time. However, we had to do exercises in the morning. There was a 70-year-old Jewish man who was unable to do these exercises and he was slapped in the face.
The well-off people were beaten for especially long, so that they would confess where they had hidden their valuables. They were beating my brother-in-law so much that he told them he had hidden a few golden coins under the floor of his office. They took him there and forced him to dig out the objects and hand them over to the gendarmes.
One morning suddenly they ordered us to pack up the belongings we wanted to take and took us to the railway station. They put 70-80 people into a freight car. We travelled to Kassa without any water. There they opened up the car and handed in a bucket of water. Then the gendarmes handed us over to SS soldiers.
After three days of travel we arrived in Auschwitz at night. It was raining heavily. We had to leave the freight cars very quickly. They told us to leave our luggage in there because they would bring it after us. We noticed at the railway station that a huge amount of luggage had already been piled up. At the railway station we were separated from each other. Those able to work were sent to one side and the others, including the elderly, children and the ill, were sent to the other. We never saw them again. As far as I know, they were gassed and then burnt.
We stood at the railway station for hours before we were taken in the bath. Finally we were taken there. They undressed us, took away all the belongings we still had left, shaved our heads and washed us. Then we were housed in a barrack. We spent three days in Auschwitz and then we were transported to Warsaw.
I reported for agricultural work in Warsaw. It was relatively better than the work of those who were clearing rubble. When it was possible, I slept at the farm and it was bearable there. Our food supply was very poor, but since I went out regularly I could acquire some food from the locals. We were often beaten, but we go used to it just like we did to the roll call.
One day they entrained us unexpectedly: 50 people were put into a car and we were transported to Dachau. There they housed us in barracks where four of us were sleeping on a small bunk. Our food supply was the following: coffee in the morning, half a litre of a soup-like meal, mostly turnip soup at noon and a quarter of a loaf of bread, which later was only one-eighth. I was lucky to work in the supply depot of the German soldiers. They had plenty of even the best quality food and I managed to obtain from their supplies. However, when the Russians were approaching, the German soldiers left and they took the supply depot as well. After that we did not get any food for days. By the time the Russians finally arrived all of us had grown weak due to starvation.