The person in question has given us the following information:

I had a flourishing lumber company in Ungvár. I lived in my own house and could secure a 
well-off middle class life for my family.

110 Jews lived in the village of Nagygajdos; they were mostly craftsmen, tradesmen, farmers, 
some were wealthier, others poorer.

When Germans invaded and occupied the country the SS plundered Jewish flats one after the 
other and were aggressive towards women so women had to escape into the nearby forest. 
The 20th of April, the Jewry of the village was transported to the ghetto of Ungvár partly by 
wagons, partly by train. We could take whatever we were able to carry along. We were lodged 
in a brick factory, the ghetto of Ungvár, which was enclosed. Prohibited area was signalled by 
red flags: whoever ventured beyond military gendarmes would shoot them. Jewish police kept 
discipline in the ghetto. Although some people tried to escape no one could get away. We 
cannot condemn the activity of the members of the Jewish Council: Dr László, Moskovits, 
etc. They tried to help us as much as they could. Gendarmes would beat wealthier people to 
obtain their confessions. Chief constable of the time was Fóny. They kept telling us that we 
would not cross the border of the country, that we would do agricultural work in Mándok, 
next to Csap. Searches and plunders were normal also in the ghetto. Deportation was carried 
out according to the order of barracks, and they announced through speakers the departure 
time of each transport. We left with the fourth transport and could bring whatever we wanted 
to; they did not even search us before entrainment. There were 85 of us in a freight car. We 
got water and a bucket for the toilet only in Kassa, where Germans took charge of the train 
and opened the doors the first time. Our train was attached to that of the Munkács ghetto, into 
which, as we heard, they had shot. As long as we stayed in Hungarian territory we believed 
we would remain in the country. When we arrived to the Polish border people started to panic.

The 28th of May, on the third day, we arrived in Auschwitz during the evening. Polish 
prisoners in striped clothes were already waiting for us at the station. They came up in the car 
and told us to leave the luggage on the train. We had to line up five in a row. After the 
selection I was taken into the baths in the group fit for work. They cut our hair off, seized our 
clothes, disinfected us, and we also got striped prisoner’s clothes. We spent a night in 
Birkenau before they took us to Auschwitz, where they put me into a transport of labourers 
and we travelled to Monowitz. There were 220-250 of us in a block, we lay two on a berth. 
Rations were made up of 120-150 grams of bread in the morning with 10 grams of margarine, 
coffee made of birch-tree leaves in the evening, and soup for lunch. We did the job of 
bricklayers constructing the factory in 11 hours a day. I worked with cables doing some hard 
work, and German capos gave us 25 blows if we did not work fast enough. Some unfortunate 
got blows three times a week. One had to be very strong and skilful to finish with the work to 
be done. German masters openly declaimed that they would prepare liquid soap of the 
person who did not endure. There was a so-called “lime kommando” which returned from 
evening work every day with around 50 missing people.

In October, when the ground was already frozen and we were unable to put the cables into the 
frozen ground a German capo called #illy gave 25 blows to me with a piece of cable. I 
collapsed and they carried me to the camp. There was a doctor from Kolozsvár called Lengyel 
(in the infirmary of the camp), who brought me medicine from the SS hospital risking his own 
life. Two weeks later my feet started to swell in the place of the beatings. The beaten part got 
infected and started to discharge pus. He was forced to operate my feet in four places in order 
to avoid amputation. I spent all this period, from October till January, in hospital. The 16th of 
January, Germans left Monowitz because of the Russian approach. They left us on our own 
with bread supplies for a single day. There were 1,500 of us remaining in the hospital living 
on this daily portion of bread for 10 days. There was a  potato pit 500 metres from the camp 
and a few risked to go there to obtain some potatoes. Every day someone was shot here 
because it was already on the frontline. We drew lots to see who would go for potatoes, as it 
was such a risky venture. People fit for work had been taken away into the forest next to 
Oleiwitz 60 kilometres away. Their number might have been around 14,000. They were 
divided into three groups: small children and the elderly were transported to Buchenwald by 
train, while those who were unable to walk, as far as I know, were executed, so very few 
people survived. 1,500 of us were left behind but only 500 remained alive by the time 
Russians arrived because the rest had been shot, but even a good number of these people died 
later in dysentery. Cadavers were carried from Monowitz into Birkenau where they burnt 
them.

Russians liberated us the 28th of January but I remained in hospital till the 9th of March, when 
Russians took me to Kattowitz, to a collecting camp, where I stayed till the 15th of June, when 
I returned home with a Czech transport. 

Future plans: Palestine.