The person in question has given us the following information:

I got to Auschwitz with the people from the ghetto of Galánta. There I was slapped in the face 
by an SS-man immediately as I was getting off. Back then I cried about it, but later I got used 
to such things. I was taken to the disinfecting building, where they cut all my hair off, 
depilated me and took away my clothes, they gave me a shabby dress in exchange, without 
underwear.

I got to extermination camp B. I was part of the Esskommando: we had to carry food from 
one camp to the other. Later, I was whitewashing the infirmary. My dress was very shabby, 
and there was whitewash all over it. Dr Mengele saw this once, and he gave me a dress and a 
plate of pasta. Next day there was a roll call and we had to go.

We went to Allendorf in freight cars. It is 100 kilometres from Kassel. We got to a weapon 
factory, whereas I worked in the kitchen. We had a good Lagerführer, so we saved him in the 
end. One woman died from among us, we buried her properly. We had to work a lot. We had 
quite enough food, but there was little in the last three months. Then we were given only one 
seventh of a loaf of bread.

There was an SS first Aufseherin. She cut many girls’ hair off for stealing carrots or potatoes. 
If a girl received a letter from a boy, her hair was cut off and she had to dig a three-metre-
deep ditch around the fence. This work could last also for 3 months. She would also lock us 
up in the bunker for 3-4 days as punishment, and would give us only a little coffee and 
nothing else.

Bombs kept exploding around the camp. The ammunition factory was below the ground. 
Once a bomb fell next to us, but we did not get hurt.

Girls organised a lot of performances. There was for example a dancer from Pest, Éva 
Korányi, and a violin player from Debrecen, Rózsi Silberer also played, she got a violin from 
an SS. We made evening dresses for ourselves from paper, tree leaves and towels, but later we 
got dresses from the shop, and we performed in these. We made a stage and got a piano. Even 
the director of the factory came to the performances saying that he had never seen anything 
like this before. They would always say that everything could be taken away from Jews 
except for their brains.

Once, boys came saying that we would be free in 2 weeks. We were very much afraid that we 
would be taken away. One morning we found out that the SS were packing, and then we were 
even more afraid.  It was Pesach, we had a Seder, next day we had to go. We had to run, one 
night we did 40 km.

We arrived in the town of Trezia, we were there until the next morning in a sheepfold. 
Aeroplanes were bombing the town. The women overseers cried a lot, but we did not know 
why.

We went on to a camp. We were walking for two nights and met retreating German troops. 
We got to Frillendorf. By that time many of us escaped. Twenty of us also wanted to escape. 
We went to the woods, saw the SS, got scared of them, but by that time they were also afraid 
of us. We went in hiding deep in the woods, it was pouring rain, we covered ourselves with 
leaves. Then a Polish POW came, took us to a barn in a village, where we could lie down. 
They brought us a little fusty bread, which we ate. Next day, looking out through the cracks of 
the barn, we saw a white flag. Tanks came with white stars; Americans were there. We ran 
towards them, waving two white towels. The Americans were throwing chocolate bars, 
cigarettes, all kinds of things to us from the car. 

A French teacher wearing eyeglasses came. He said we should sleep there. The French would 
always help and take care of us, at night they milked the German cows and brought us some 
milk. Next day the French teacher took us into another village. There he put us up in a stable 
on hay. Then Americans were already coming. Two of us could speak English, we went to 
receive them.

An American officer came, assigned the prettiest house to us, and threatened the mayor that if 
he did not fulfil his wishes, he would burn the whole village down the next day.

We were liberated on the 28th of March.