The person in question has given us the following information:

I started my labour service in 1942. My parents were taken away already in 1941, when the Jews of Polish origin were dragged away from Hungary. I did not hear from them again. I served my longest term as a labour serviceman in Hajdúhadháza. We worked with concrete, we constructed barracks and a large drill grounds. The guards behaved very badly: they impelled and beat people.  The situation was bearable only because I still had some money left and whatever I needed I could purchase from and exchange with the peasants. Moreover it is always better to stay in one place, because you get to know the situation. From here I was taken to Transylvania where we built fortifications on the frontier. We were at many places, always up in the mountains. We met hardly a soul and we were at the mercy of the guards.  Beatings and truss-ups were everyday occurrences. Our food was stolen and we got less and less every day. My fellow labour servicemen perished, one after the other. Later from Transylvania we were taken to Rákoshegy where we dug trenches. From here they transported us close to the Slovakian border. Later we were taken to Mosonmagyaróvár where the Hungarians wanted to hand us over to the Germans, but they did not want to take over us, since typhoid fever broke out in the company. They sent us to Szombathely and since the situation was already quite chaotic because of the Russian approach, many labour servicemen escaped. I did not dare to flee and thus I had to continue my long march that had been going on since Transylvania. We marched to Mauthausen. 

I spent only 10 days in Mauthausen. The SS beat us all the time. Our rations consisted of 10 decagrams of bread and a little soup. We had a large number of casualties every day. 

From Mauthausen we were taken to Günskirchen on foot. They did not give anything to eat on the way and they shot those who could not walk. The road was covered with corpses. 

Günskirchen was worse than anything. There was not enough room in the barracks, we were not given food and there was no water either. It was an annihilation camp: all you could do here was dying. The Americans arrived on May 4. If they had come two weeks later, they would not have found a living soul.