The person in question has given us the following information: 

My father was a farmer too; we were very poor. After Passover we were put into the ghetto and spent four and a half weeks here. During our stay we suffered a lot: we were beaten up many times. Therefore when we were informed about the date of deportation, we were almost relieved. Ninety people were crammed into a cattle car and we got water and a bucket to use as a toilet. The cattle cars were opened in Kassa for the first time. We were given water again, this time by labour servicemen. The SS men taking over us told us that we would go to work to Germany and those working well would be well off. Nobody escaped from the cattle car and there were no casualties either. After four days of travel we arrived in Auschwitz on May 15. We were taken to the bath; our hair was cropped and we were given other clothes. After spending three days in the quarantine I was put on a worker’s transport. In this transport only 50 people were put into one cattle car, but we were heavily beaten on the way. In Ellenburst we were accommodated in tent barracks. Two hundred fifty prisoners stayed in one of these barracks; we were lying on the ground on straw.  The rations were as follows: coffee, soup, quarter of a loaf of bread and Zulag. At first I was working at a construction site, then I was assigned to a smithy. Work was very hard here, but the food supply was a little better. We had to work 12 hours a day. In the beginning I got many blows with a stick. This was a small labour camp with only 600 prisoners. We had to line up for roll call in the morning, at noon and in the evening too. I was together with my father until February 15, but then he was separated from me as sick and weak. I was put on a worker’s transport. I was marching for six days; all we got was a loaf of bread and we were also given six to seven pieces of potatoes on the way.  After six days we were put into freight cars: 110 people in one car. We travelled for five days. There was no air and we could not sit down. Many died on the way. After arriving to Flossenbürg (it was a distribution camp) we had to stand outdoors the whole day. Many became so weak that they collapsed. There was a crematorium there. Afterwards I was selected for another transport and after three days of travel I arrived in Leonberg, near Stuttgart. The trip was extremely hard: there were 65 of us in a freight car and did not get anything to eat. I became very weak. Leonberg was a labour camp. I worked for a week in a factory, then I was taken to Kaufering, near Munich. We worked only for four days here, then I was transported to Kanaka, next to Landau. I worked also a week here on an airfield. After a day of travel I fled, but I was caught in a barn by an SS soldier. There were 11 Jews arrested. We were in the custody of German policemen for three days. Later the German police handed us over to a German peasant, but by then we had been liberated on May 1. I was sick in Amsdorf for three weeks, but after recovering I spent a few additional weeks there. I came home via Brno.  

As for my future plans, I want to go to Palestine.