The person in question has given us the following information:


I was performing labour service in the Ferencváros garrison. On November 2 I received a leave permit until morning. The next day there was an Arrow Cross identity check and my papers were examined too. I was taken to the Tattersaal together with the others and from there to the Dohány Street synagogue. We spent a day here and then we were taken to the Óbuda brick factory. From there we were set off on foot for Hegyeshalom via Pilisvörösvár in groups of 2500 escorted by national guard members.  

At Zürndorf the SS took over us; we were entrained and taken to Neuengamme. We were lodged in a camp next to the railway station. We spent four days there. They singled out the skilled workers and this is how I was taken to Hamburg with a group of 240. 

In Hamburg we were lodged in a ship factory. There was a proper possibility for washing ourselves, steam heating, lavatory. Everybody had a clean bed with two blankets. We did different jobs; some went to perform rubble clearance, others were assigned to different skilled works, e.g., I welded cars. The foremen were one German and two Dutch capos. They were bad and brutal. We worked here from the end of November until the end of March. In March there were big air raids, so we were moved away to Deutschwehr. 

We sailed ca. 10 kilometres on the Elba. We lived in a huge ship factory. Twenty-four men in a room; we had decent straw mattresses and two blankets. We had no foremen here, but we distributed work among ourselves all by our own. In a few days we were taken ca. 10 kilometres away from the camp to the railway to lay tracks. On that day we got under heavy shellfire, therefore they took us back to the camp where we found our barracks in ruins. Thus we were lodged in a warehouse that was also partly destroyed by the bombing. In my opinion there was place for 300 persons and there were 800 of us. From that on we cleared rubble. We had no bathing possibilities any more, so we were overcome with lice. We had an Austrian capo, who was bad and beat us all the time. We spent three weeks clearing rubble and then we were taken to Hamburg. 

From Hamburg we were transferred to a collecting point, where we spent only 24 hours. Then we were entrained and taken to St. Pölten. There we were put into a camp where there had been no deportees before. After two days we were set off on foot for Hamburg. We marched for eight days, then we carried on travelling in cattle cars. For three days we did not get any food; many fell ill and perished. Probably there were 3000 of us on the train. My body was covered with purulent furuncles.  

From Hamburg we were taken back again to St.Pölten where the Americans and British liberated us at the same time. I do not know what day it happened, since I was lying completely unconsciously in a tent that was furnished as a hospital.  

After my partial recovery I was taken to Farge as a convalescent patient. I completely recovered due to the care provided by the British. 

From Farge I was transferred to Brehna, which was a collecting camp. I was there for five and a half weeks. From there I went to Hannover, since I wished to go home and I was unable to wait for a transport set off from Brehna. I spent six weeks there. We stayed in a cabin in a pretty suburb and when we had enough of vacationing, we went to Linz with a few comrades. 
There we managed to be put on a transport, with which we arrived in Budapest on September 17.