The persons in question have given us the following information

Our father was a lumberman; we lived in our own house in very good financial conditions. 
After the four weeks we spent in the ghetto of Munkács we were set forth with the second transport. 
82 people were put in a cattle car. An old man died on the way but nobody attempted to escape in 
our cattle car. They gave us some water when we started, but the water supply was only retrieved at 
Kassa, where the Germans took over. They told us that we were being taken to work, but we 
already saw what was in store for us. I, the above named Lilly Mendelsohn, looked out of the 
window in Slovakia, and they shot in immediately, but luckily the bullet did not hit me. The money 
we still had we tore apart and threw it out of the window. Since our cattle car was right next to that 
of the Germans escorting us, we were always in view. They picked the men from us and locked 
them up in a separate cattle car, where they beat them up. Among those beaten men there were 
Samu Guttmann, János Guttmann, Sándor Guttmann and others, who asked the Germans escorting 
us what they suggested them to do: when we arrive, should they say that they are ill or not? The 
Germans told them to register as ill people, which they did and later we heard that all of them had 
been taken to the gas. 

We arrived in Auschwitz at the end of a two-day journey at about 12 o’clock at night. When 
we arrived, we saw the chimneys in flames and we heard screams. It was a horrible feeling: 
we thought we were being taken directly into the fire. I had some morphine with me for all 
emergencies and I took it still on the way. When we were in the bath, a prisoner who was a 
physician saw that and helped me. In the bath they cut our hair and gave us clothes different from 
our own. They locked us up in a camp, which was a Gypsy camp. 1,500 of us stayed in a block and 
we had nowhere to lie down, we slept on the concrete floor. We got blankets only on the following 
day; every three people were given one blanket. We spent three weeks there. In the first three days 
we did not get any food at all. Later we were given a little coffee, a portion of bread and a packet of 
margarine, while the lunch they gave us consisted of a pot of soup made of some grass with sand 
and bromide. 12 people received a pot, which meant two decilitres for one person. There was a 
reveille a 3 o’clock at dawn. If somebody could not get ready and go out to the Appellplatz quickly 
enough she was beaten by the overseer women. We were often standing there for long hours until 
finally the number of people was found to be correct. We had to kneel as a punishment many times. 
After three weeks, we were sent to Camp C, where 1,200 people lived in a block and 12 slept on a 
bunk. We worked in the Aussenkommando next to the crematorium; we sawed and split wood and 
transported it to the oven. Once we heard that a transport from Lodz had arrived; they were lined up 
in fifties, women and children; moreover they had their baggage with them. A seven-year-old boy 
asked me where they were going to be taken and I answered, to the bath. The poor boy 
replied with resignation that he knew what sort of bath they were being taken to. Following 
that, they were driven to the so-called bathhouse, which was a cellar. 
Once, when we were not so much before the Germans’ eyes I looked in there and I saw that there 
were coat hangers all around equipped with numbers. I also saw showers through which the gas was 
let out. I heard from the people working there that when the people in question went in they were 
given a piece of soap and a towel. We often heard screaming and crying for minutes, which 
slowly became lower and lower, then stopped completely. We also heard that some people, 
whose hearts were very strong did not die immediately, but they were still breathing when 
they were thrown into the oven. The latter information we heard from our uncle, who worked in 
the crematorium. He was the one who told us that he had burnt our parents too, but six months later 
he was burnt himself, as it usually happened to those working there. The Germans did not need 
witnesses. Once we received a letter from our uncle, in which he told us that one night Mózes 
Weinberger, the owner of a public bath, who was also assigned to work in the crematorium 
and who was a very religious man, was reluctant to do the work and he asked rather to be 
shot dead, only not to be forced to do that work. In spite of his request he was not shot dead, 
but he was thrown into the oven alive; they even heard his voice from inside. 

I, the above named Lilly Mendelsohn, was selected thirty-three times; it happened that ten 
selections were made a day. On one occasion, my sister Sári was put among the weak people and 
she was taken to block No. 7 with the other selected ones. A block curfew was held at 12 o’clock at 
night and I stole the female block leader’s armband, I put it on and went out like that. I sneaked to 
the guard and I offered her my gold watch, which I had managed to save. She threatened me, but I 
kept talking to her until I finally managed to bribe her. She went to the block and brought my sister 
out. The poor little girl jumped on my neck and she fainted from excitement. I could hardly manage 
to make her regain her consciousness in two hours. 

From Auschwitz we were taken with a transport to Pürsko. 2,000 of us were travelling by passenger 
train for two days; we received a portion of bread and two portions of margarine for the journey. A 
bomb hit our train on the way, but to our luck nobody died among us. When we arrived in Pürsko 
they accommodated us in a stable at a farmstead. We spent a month there; our task was to dig 
trenches. Our provisions were quite good. After a bomb attack one evening we were taken away 
from there too; we marched for a month while we spent the nights in villages. The 2,000 people 
were crammed into a stable and the door was nailed shut. There was so little room that we were 
practically lying on each other and often we did not have even that; if we did not find a suitable 
stable we slept out in the open air in the snow in wintertime. A number of people died of frost there, 
so only 1,400 of us arrived in Grünberg. We got 5-6 potatoes a day: that was all our daily food 
supply. During the one-month-long way we only saw bread twice. Many tragedies happened during 
that march, one of them I can recall: a woman called Mrs. Halpuder from Munkács, who was with 
us together with her daughter, was taken to the forest one night. The girl ran after them because she 
felt bad about it. We saw it from a distance, from the side of the forest where we were cooking at 
the oven that they had dug a hole and they placed a plank above it. The Wehrmacht sergeant 
ordered the woman to stand on the plank and when she did the sergeant shot the woman down. The 
girl saw her mother’s death and she asked the sergeant to shoot her dead too; the sergeant did not 
make her ask him for long, so they died together. 

At last we arrived in Grünberg, where we stayed for a week. Our provisions were satisfactory and 
we did not work there. We set off to Guben together with a transport, which had been ready to go. 
The march was one week long; we slept in stables during that march again. Again we got 5-6 pieces 
of potatoes, but luckily there was a nice clean thick snow, so we could eat snow, as there was no 
water anyway. Many people tried to escape on the way; unfortunately a number of them got caught 
and they were shot down without mercy. We stayed in Guben for a week. We had already been 
completely weak; we got so little to eat that we were only lying all day long from weakness and 
hunger. We had hardly been able to walk. Meanwhile the Russians were approaching; attacks 
followed each other and so we were soon taken to Gross Rosen. Although we spent only two days 
there: they disinfected us and took us along to Bergen-Belsen. We can only remember the camp of 
Bergen-Belsen with horror. After our arrival 134 of us were driven into one small room; we were 
sitting on the floor, it was impossible to lie down. In the beginning our provisions were quite good, 
then, about 3 weeks before the liberation we did not even see any bread except a quarter of a loaf on 
one occasion, but even that was said to be poisoned. Everybody got typhus. We fell ill too, and we 
had fevers as high as 40 degrees, but we were selected to carry corpses still when we were ill. 
That was horrible work, but soon we managed to get in the peeling kitchen. 25 of us were there 
when we heard through the loudspeaker on 15th April that the English troops had arrived in 
Bergen-Belsen. An Oberscharführer entered the kitchen and he cracked the girls’ heads with 
a screwdriver in his wrath, and having them stunned in that way he threw them into a barrel. 
There was a relative of ours called Rózsi among them, who went mad as a result of the terror 
she had suffered. I hid myself in a barrel and covered myself with a lot of withered carrots. 
My sister climbed under a table and pretended to be dead; that is how we could escape from 
this beast. The English set us free: we heard that they caught the Oberscharführer on the 
following day; they stripped him naked and cut pieces from his living flesh. 

Soon after the liberation, on 15th April we got to Bergen and we lived there for three weeks, then 
we went to Celle. There I, the above named Lilly Mendelsohn got to work at a kitchen again, I 
became a chef, but of course I offered my work of my own free will, nobody forced me. We set off 
with a Czech transport; it happened on the train towards Prague that a friend of mine recognized the 
Oberscharführer from Pürsko disguised as a Polish prisoner dressed in striped clothes sitting next to 
her. Of course he did not want to recognize us, but I brought three Czech soldiers with bayonets 
immediately and their captain called the Oberscharführer to account for his deeds. First he denied 
that he was a member of the SS, he claimed he was a deported prisoner, but the captain demanded 
him to show his tattooed number. He indeed had it, but in spite of that the captain arrested him. 
From Prague we came to Budapest through Pozsony.