The person in question has given us the following information:

My husband was a mechanical engineer; alas, he died in Auschwitz.
On 19th March 1944, Dr. József Molnár was the mayor of Kispest; he and the police superintendent 
acted quite nicely towards the Jews. As far as I know, about 3,000 Jews lived in Kispest. 

Our moving together started in mid May. The question of the ghetto was solved as correctly as 
possible, which was due exclusively to the goodwill of the mayor. Everybody who lived in the 
ghetto was taken away at the same time on 30th June. 80 of us were travelling in a small cattle car. 
They took us to the concentration camp in the brickyard of Monor, where most of the people living 
near Pest were crammed, but those coming from the ghetto of Jászberény were among them too. 
About 10,000 of us may have been there, we slept on the ground in the open air. We were exposed 
to the continuous abuse of the gendarmerie. The camp was led by a German lieutenant, but we were 
in contact only with the gendarmerie. This meant that they were always beating us without the 
smallest reason, they beat up those who got within reach. We were together with physicians there, 
among whom many suicides occurred. We had nothing against the behaviour of the Christian 
inhabitants of Monor, they brought bread for us and when we were taken to the cattle cars, they 
gave us water too. 

Some days later they spread us out to transports, they completed the whole deportation within three 
days. About 3,000 of us went away with the last transport, 73 of us were put in a cattle car. There 
was one fatally ill person but he did not die on the way; I cannot remember any attempt of escape 
either. We received some water only in Kassa; when we asked the gendarmes for water, they 
answered: “The worst that can happen is that you all perish.” The gendarmes got off in Kassa but 
they searched us beforehand and called upon us to submit all the valuables we still had. All these, 
of course, did not happen without beating.
 
We arrived in Auschwitz-Birkenau on the night of 11th July. People dressed in striped clothes 
getting on the train told us to leave all our belongings there, then we lined up, men and women 
separately. The mothers with children, the ill and the old were separated from the others, those who 
were able to work were put on the right side. Alas, everybody knows already what happened to 
those who got on the left side, but we were absolutely ignorant, and we, quite stupidly, were hoping 
for the best. They took us to the bathhouse where they cut our hair, they depilated us, than they 
gave us a single dress instead of our own clothes. We were lining up for roll call in that single thin 
dress. It was raining all night long, we were wet and cold and it was only the beginning. They put 
us up in Camp C, 1,000 of us in a block, 13 of us on a bunk. The daily food rations consisted of a 
small slice of bread, margarine and soup made of some kind of grass, we even found coal in it. 
However, we did not work at all, our days were spent mostly with Appell. It was unbearable!

About the crematorium I know only what I heard about it. I can only tell about my experiences 
from the first night, when we saw the huge flames erupting from the chimneys of the crematorium. 
After our arrival, we were the first transport of labourers which was sent away. They took us to 
Stutthof, 1,800 women, 50 of us were entrained in each cattle car. We travelled in quite acceptable 
circumstances. We arrived on 14th August, they crammed so many women in a barrack that we 
were literally sitting on each other. Lying down or sleeping was, naturally, out of the question. 
When we were trying to find a place for ourselves we made an awful noise of course, so the Aryan 
Polish female block leader poured many buckets of dirty cold water on us and we had to be sitting 
in that puddle all night long. Meanwhile she was beating the women with a thick strap. We spent 
two weeks in horrible conditions. They sent out transports of labourers from there, they equipped 
us and took us to Argenau on 2nd September. 1,800 of us were taken there; they put us in wooden 
barracks, 60 women in each. We lied on the ground there too, and we had no blankets either. They 
assigned me to dig trenches, we worked from 6 o’clock in the morning to 5 o’clock in the 
afternoon. Lithuanian guards were watching over us when we worked; they treated the women as 
badly as possible, they always beat them, and there was nobody to turn to for protection. 

The work ended at the end of September, so they took us to Thorn, where there was a work, which 
appeared more urgent to do. All the 1,800 people were taken there, where we arrived on 2nd 
October. We were accommodated in tents, 60 people in each. Our task was again to dig trenches 
and anti-tank ditches and the guards were also Lithuanians, but these were even worse than the 
former ones. They beat us so cruelly that it happened that somebody had to be taken to the 
infirmary with a broken rib after such a beating. We had to work outdoors, however bad the 
weather was; it did not happen even once that we could stay in the barracks. We worked 
insufficiently dressed, practically without shoes. The provisions were so little and poor that people 
died of complete exhaustion one after the other. There was no crematorium there; the cadavers 
were buried in mass graves in the forest. About 20 deaths occurred a day. 

The ill people remained in the infirmary at the withdrawal; the left-behind guards and their leader 
shot dead every single one of them. 17 comrades, who escaped and my block leader told me about 
this, whom I met later in Lublin. She told me that the 200 ill people left behind had all been shot 
dead, she managed to escape only because the two dead people lying beside her and her furry coat 
had covered her, so they had not noticed her. They had laid the ill upon each other and had shot 
them like that, so a complete heap of corpses had been formed at the end. We evacuated on 20th 
January, before the Russians arrived. We started on foot, of course, we covered 30 kilometres a day 
without eating and drinking. They put us up in barns for the nights and we went on at dawn. Many 
people stumbled and fell behind, and the Lithuanian guards shot all of them down. The number of 
those people shot down during the march was around 80-100. 

We arrived in Croen, where they accommodated us in a prison, saying that we would continue the 
march on the following day, but the Russians arrived at night, so we were liberated on 26th 
January. About 800 people were liberated there. 
 
After the liberation, the Russians took us to Bromberg where they left us completely alone. We set 
off, naturally as free people already, to Lublin, where we were disinfected and after forming 
transports the Russians took us along to Chernovitz. From there they took us with another transport 
to Szluck; we came home, to Budapest, from there through Poland on 5th September.
My plans for the future: I would like to get a job as soon as possible.