The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service in October 1942 in company no. 9/3 in Vác.  We worked at more than one place for one or two weeks and then we spent a longer period of time in Nádasladány. Our lieutenant, Ferenc Reider gave a free hand to the guards against the Jews and they severely beat us. Our food was stolen and we starved a lot. Forty of us escaped from here, but a peasant reported on our hiding place and we were captured. We were beaten up badly and closed up in a dark bunker for eight days where we got only water, nothing else. As a company enjoying diplomatic protection we were transferred to Budapest in the autumn of 1944 and we worked at the Ferencváros railway station. On November 28 the whole company was entrained at the Józsefváros railway station and we travelled in sealed cattle cars for eight days without food and water. We travelled around Austria and then we were brought back to Kőszeg. 

By the time we got there we were teeming with lice. This was one of the main sources of torture for us. We were treated like animals. We built fortifications throughout the whole winter and we had to work even in the strictest cold and blizzard. We were even chased out to work when the ground was so frozen that it was impossible to dig. The sick were also sent to work, but if one of us was unable to move and stayed there lying, he got only half of his portion. We were lodged in a barn that did not have sidewalls, only a roof. It was terribly cold. If one stayed lying sick, weak and hungry almost outdoors, he froze to death. Many became frostbitten in the legs and hands. One died after the other of fatal exhaustion, typhoid fever and diarrhoea. 

We were entrained again in March. We travelled for eight days and on the way two truckloads of dead bodies were thrown out of the train. It was terrible to be locked up with these destroyed, tortured people for eight days. Two people got insane in my freight car and got each other by the throat. Panic and fighting broke out; an SS came in and shot the two mad prisoners. 

We spent two or three days in Mauthausen. It was a horrible camp. I saw the physician Dr Zoltán Klár there. We were happy to move from that camp, but unfortunately I was taken to an even worse one.  

Gusen II was an annihilation camp. We worked in a tunnel for 12 hours a day. It was extremely hard in itself, but moreover we were beaten. The working place was far from the camp and we were taken by train to work. We were squeezed into the cars in the morning and in the evening and the SS beat us on the way with rubber truncheons. The food was completely inedible, we got mouldy bread. In the morning before work we had to drag the dead out of the block. There were 25-30 corpses every day in front of each block. The terrible working conditions, the starving and the cruel treatment killed people in large numbers. Most of them died due to fatal exhaustion. 

One evening the SS escaped and the next morning the Americans marched in. That was our most beautiful morning in Gusen.