The person in question has given us the following information: 
 
From among the 7 Jewish families of Szenteske almost all were farmers; my father was a 
shoemaker, he had a prosperous shop, too.  
With us, like everywhere in the country, the series of antisemitic decrees started with the 
order to wear a yellow star. My father had to register at the police twice a month. Andor 
Kormos, a Calvinist pastor, and Albert Gombos, a schoolmaster, made sure that the 
decrees were strictly observed and they wrote a letter to the ghetto of Ungvár to complain 
about the Jews of Szenteske. The memorandum bore four signatures: one of them was 
that of Gombos, the other one of Kormos. The village judge was Malicsik that time, and 
the other village official was Miskócsik; it was due to them that we were taken to the 
penal barrack of the ghetto. Every Jewish man from Szenteske was taken to that barrack; 
we stayed there for four weeks. Those who wanted to escape from there were all shot 
down. There was an 86-year-old man there too, that grey beard was also beaten by a 
German officer and a Hungarian detective. 
 
They also took us to work from the ghetto: we emptied Jewish houses and worked in a 
wood yard. Women worked there too, but they were more often taken to do housework. 
We heard of many cases when people were beaten to death in the ghetto. For example, a 
woman wanted to go behind the fence and they shot her dead. 18,000 Jews were 
crammed in the ghetto, which was enclosed by a fence. Gendarmes and policemen 
watched over it from outside and Jewish policemen inside. They often searched our 
houses, but they had also searched our flats earlier at home and they had taken away all 
our valuables and our money.  
 
As far as I know, when the Jews left the village, Endre Szolyvay, chief notary of 
Porosztó, had had their belongings taken for himself. This I heard when I was coming 
back, at the Polish border. We stayed in the ghetto for four weeks, then on one evening 
three officers came and emptied Barrack 7. Those who were weak were put in the second 
transport, while we started off on the first one. They crammed 90 people in a cattle car; 
we did not receive any water or buckets for toilet. At Kassa, we saw already that we were 
travelling towards Poland. The Germans took over at Kassa and we were given water for 
the first time in Eperjes. 
 
Six days later, on a morning, we arrived in Auschwitz; prisoners told us that the baggage 
should stay in the cattle cars and we got off. Then they lined us up and separated men 
from women, then old people and able-bodied ones were stood on opposite sides. 
We spent only six days in Auschwitz, then they put us in a transport and took us to 
Wolfsberg. The journey lasted one and a half days. We received two thirds of a loaf of 
bread and some Zulag for the way. 35 of us were accommodated in a small tent; we lay 
on the ground and there were plenty of lice. The provisions were very small, while the 
work was hard: we used pick axes for road building. We were beaten with rifle butts at 
work and the foremen also beat us with sticks, of the thickness of an arm. Later we 
received a good foreman and they assigned me to work at the locomotive. We worked 
there for eight months; I was taken to hospital with rheumatism, the inflammation of 
muscles, on 12th December. I stayed in hospital till 6th January, then I was taken to 
another hospital in Tannhausen, where I received medical treatment. They did have 
medicines there and the physician was Dr. Deutsch, an acquaintance of ours from 
Nagykároly. He was a very nice man: he kept treating me with injections until I 
completely recovered. Although we received very little food in the hospital.  
 
When the Russians were approaching, they took us 5 kilometres away, to the camp of 
Schottewerk; we stayed there for a month and in spite of the fact that I was still ill, they 
made me work. I carried coal and snow.  
 
They needed 100 men in Dörnau; they chose me too among others and took us there. I 
worked there for three months, we took apart rails and used pick axes. That was very hard 
work. We worked for the Krause firm; from the weakened people we took back 4-5 dead 
every day. We had a very bad foreman, he often beat us. Before our liberation the camp 
was closed down for two weeks, we did not even go to work. 
 
On the evening of 8th May, after the announcement of the ceasefire, we were still 
beaten up. Then, at a quarter past eight the Germans surrendered. The SS men ran 
away but we stayed there, then we went to the city and in the afternoon we set off 
towards home through the Czech Republic. 
 
My plans for the future: Now I would like to travel to Prague, I heard that my sister is 
lying ill there, and I want to bring her home. Later I want to emigrate to America since 
many of my relatives live there.