The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on June 5, 1944 in Garrison Albrecht from where I was assigned to Jászberény. 

At the end of June I was transported to Bor. The officer in charge of the Jászberény labour service camp ordered guards with machine guns to escort us and threatened to shoot us if we moved. 

We arrived in Bor after many ordeals. As a reception, the guards in Bor beat us up. That had a terrible impression on us; we thought that that was the end. I remember the elderly being beaten up severely: I was extremely sorry for them. It was typical of the guards to ask us how we liked the food. I do not even have to mention that it was inedible, but anybody hesitating to say that is was good, was beaten up.  

In a few days we were scattered into the camps surrounding Bor. I was taken to a camp named Westfalen. We built the railway embankment between Belgrade and Nis. Trussing up labour servicemen was part of the Sunday amusement of the guards. Of course these atrocities happened by order of Marányi. Even if the Jewish physicians examined the labour servicemen beforehand, the guards did not care if they said that the punishment would be dangerous. We were very sorry for our poor brothers-in-arms. If they passed out, they were taken off the pole, water was poured over them and they were trussed up again. The shortest punishment period was two hours. 


On September 18 we left Bor on foot. In the beginning we had food. There was no way we could acquire some more. Each and every member of the Serbian population would have sacrificed their lives for us. They took the greatest risk throwing food to us. The Hungarian guards behaved in the most outrageous way: if somebody stepped out of line to take some food from the Serbs, he was beaten with a rifle butt and shot at.  Warrant Officer Pál (35 years old) was the evilest murderer.  I saw it with my own eyes when a younger kid stepped out of the column to take some corn and Pál shot him through: the kid died right away. He was one of our first casualties. 


We arrived in Chervenka in the first days of October. The supervision was taken over by the German SS. The members of the guard were ethnic Germans from the Southern Provinces and Chervenka. We were driven into the local brick factory. Food was not distributed. We exchanged our belongings for food. Meanwhile the SS took us to carry ammunition. 

In a couple of days the labour servicemen were assigned to groups of 500. We did not know what would happen to us. I was not assigned to these groups, but when I saw that the guards were up to something, I realised that they decided not to transport the people left behind, but to shoot them. Therefore I dodged the guards, got out of the brick factory and joined the last group.  

Two days later we were informed that those 1000 labour servicemen left in Chervenka were shot down by the ethnic German SS men. 

As we passed the villages, we were taken over by one ethnic German SS unit after the other. Each unit escorted us through two or three villages. They marched 10-15 kilometres, then went back. We were taken over by the unit of the village we entered. As we were marched away from the approaching Russians, most of the ethnic German families were transported towards Germany by farm wagons. It happened many times that we were driven by an SS man while his family was travelling next to him on a wagon. Encouraged by their family members they shot people on the way. It also happened that 13-14-year-old girls and boys and young women pulled their rifles and aiming from the wagons they shot our unfortunate brothers-in-arms. These fleeing ethnic Germans were all armed. 


While proceeding through Bácska and Bánát we had to run in the gutter, since the road was full of the refugees’ wagons. It was really easy to aim at people in the gutter from the wagons; many of our comrades fell victim to the ethnic German murderers. 

Food supply was out of the question during the whole march. We ate corn and turnip stolen from the fields.  Of course we had the hardest time to cook these. 

On October 15 we arrived in Mohács. We spent a week in a leather factory. The Russians were only 15 kilometres away, when by order of Lieutenant Colonel Marányi we were put into closed cattle cars. Marányi’s intention was to get as few of us from the cars out alive as possible. We did not get food and we were not able to go to the toilet either.  

We reached Szentkirályszabadja. Here we were assigned to companies and we were set off on foot towards the border. By order of Marányi we marched in front of him and we heard him saying: “I want as few as possible of these to get to Germany alive!” This announcement launched organised murder. According to Marányi: “The Jews are going pay for the fact that Serbian partisans killed the guards who stayed in Bor”. 

Eight company, i.e., 1600 labour servicemen left Szentkirályszabadja. Only 800 of us arrived in Zürndorf. The rest was killed by the guards on the way.  

If somebody grew weak, he was left dead on the road. It was strictly forbidden for us to acquire a wagon. The exhausted labour serviceman was made to lie down facing the ground. Two people were made to stand next to him: one grabbed his right leg, the other grabbed his left one and he was dragged on the ground until he died. The corpses were thrown into the gutter. If somebody was still alive, the guard hit him in the head with a club. 

In the first days of November we crossed the border at Hegyeshalom and marched to Zürndorf. Germans took over us there. Although previously the SS killed many of our fellows, all we wanted was to get into their hands, since they finished off their victims at least quickly. 

Our first deportation station was Sachsenhausen. This was the distribution point of the Heinkel Works. We did not work here. All of our belongings were taken away and we had to put on prisoner’s uniform. 

With a labourer’s transport we marched to Oranienburg. It was a smaller distribution site.  We were assigned to groups; as a mechanic, I was taken to Ravensbrück with a group of 130. I did not work here. Later I was assigned to the Heinkel Works in Barth. 

Barth was the most horrible camp. One thousand eight hundred Ukrainian and Aryan Polish prisoners worked here and us, 130 Jews. When we arrived, the SS men and the German criminals wearing a green sign told us that no Jew will get out of that camp alive. 

At around the end of April 1945, when the Russians were approaching, the Jews were transported back to Ravensbrück. By then only 27 of us were still alive. Almost all of us came from Bor. 

Work was hard in Barth. The Polish Aryans treated us the worst.  They beat and kicked Jewish prisoners to death. The rations were so scarce and bad that most of them were close to lethal exhaustion. However this did not kill the Jews, since the Poles beat these sick people to death, who could not even defend themselves. 

As the Russians approached, first we were taken to Ravensbrück, then to Wöbbelin. Wöbbelin was a collection site. From Ravensbrück 2000 Jews were transported there (including us) and there were 8000 Aryan Russians prisoners too. We had 100 casualties daily due to fatal exhaustion. This went on like this until we were liberated on May 3.

The Americans liberated us. The first liberators were two American Red Cross soldiers. The trap was closing on the Germans right there, so there was no need for tanks or weapons: the Germans just left. 

The Americans treated us amazingly well; we will never be treated with such generosity in our whole lives. Their performance was superhuman. We cannot even describe their self-sacrifice. We will never be able to return their goodness. 

Unfortunately many prisoners died after the liberation. The Americans fought as lions for the life of each and every of them. There was nothing they would have denied from them. For example they had a blood transfusing machine: one transfusion cost 100 dollars. There were patients who got ten of those. They did everything for us. The English, who replaced them, acted the same way.