The persons in question have given us the following information: 

The Jewish Laws did not affect me. (I. B.) 
In was performing labour service in 1940. I was called up on November 11 and discharged on January 15, 1941. I was called up again to report by June 22, 1941 and I have been in the labour service ever since. We were treated very badly. We were working in a tunnel in Sianki. We were assigned to a railway construction company. There were three labour companies there: one from Munkács, one from Gödöllő and one from Kisvárda.  The members of these companies were treated brutally. We worked 12 hours a day. The food was very bad: they distributed cabbage soup and other similar meals. The railway constructors treated us very badly too. They said that the tunnel had to be finished in six weeks and we would not get home anyway. They urged us terribly all the time. Those who could not cope with the night shift got 25 blows with a club. Colonel Vecsey (or Gecsey), the commander of the three labour service companies had unlimited power. He could give order to anybody. We were handed over to him. 
In 1943 in Ukraine I also fell ill with typhoid fever. I was taken to the infamous hospital of Dorosich. When the Hungarian soldiers set the whole building on fire, I was there too. The doors and the windows were sealed, so that we would not be able to get out. When with great efforts we managed to open some of them, many people wanted to get out at once, so we were on top of each other: it was such a bedlam. People were treading on each other. Burning people were running out of the building just to face machine guns waiting for them outside. I could get out only with burns, which later got healed. Many died there. 
On June 21, 1944 we were travelling through the country and went to Vác. We spent two months there; we were quite well off. Later we joined company no. 109/7 in Budapest. On November 1 I was arrested by the Arrow Cross and deported to Germany. We marched to Hegyeshalom . We walked all day; we got food only once a day. We spent the nights on football fields or marketplaces. It was raining day and night; we got soaking wet. 
(H. S): One hundred twenty Jewish families lived in Hársfalva. Most of the Jews were poor.  
I was in labour service on the Gár Mountain in Transylvania and from there I was taken to Szepesbikszád. Our life was miserable: our place was circled by barbed wire, we were not allowed to talk to civilians, there was no food and we were severely beaten. The commander was Fábián from Nagybánya; he hit and slapped us. We had to quarry one cubic metre of stone. When we were unable to produce this amount, we had to work from 3 am to 11 pm.  Later we marched through the whole country and joined my fellow labour serviceman mentioned above. 
At Hegyeshalom the Germans took over us and entrained us. There were 50 of us in one cattle car.  On that day we got some food, but afterwards nothing for three days. After three days of travel we arrived in Neuengamme. We got off the train and stayed there for three days. We were disinfected, cropped and given clothes. When we got the new uniform, we could not recognise each other.  
From Neuengamme we were taken to a ship factory in Hamburg to perform masonry work. We had to work eight hours a day; food was bad and there was no breakfast whatsoever. At noon we got cabbage or turnip soup, or turnip water to be more precise, without thickening or fat. We got half a decagram of margarine and the same amount of sausage; the rest was stolen. We were beaten continuously. Once I got 25 blows because I had two pairs of stockings, but only one pair was allowed. A lot of people died of hunger. At our place ca. 200 people died out of 350. We were teeming with lice. We did not wash ourselves for six months, only washed our faces with coffee sometimes. The lavatory was destroyed by a bomb. 
We were evacuated because of the English pressure; we were taken to Sankt Posten. We travelled by train. They distributed food for three days and then nothing was given for another three. Many died here of starvation too. We got something to eat only on the second say after our arrival. 
We were here until the liberation. We did not have to work: all we did was picking lice. Many died here due to hunger and typhoid fever. The death rate can be illustrated by the following data: originally there were 6000 prisoners, but only 2000 of us stayed alive. The corpses were carried away; later the English buried the dead in large ditches.  
The English liberated us on April 28, 1945. We both fell ill with typhoid fever afterwards. 
All the above is based on our own experience.