The aforementioned person presents the following:

I started my labour service on July 25, 1942 in company no. 106/V. We spent a couple of days in Orosháza, and then they took us to Transylvania where we worked in the mountains. The food supply was bad and the treatment even worse. There was a corporal, called István Kovács, from a village near Szolnok; he was always chasing and beating us. Another corporal, called Nagy, was abusing us verbally and never gave us a moment’s peace unless we offered him the half of the food we had received in parcels. The other half was stolen by the guards, anyway. We worked there for six months.
At the end of January 1943 they took us to Vác where the guards also treated us very badly. Later we were transferred to the company no. 106/12 where we had new guards. They were good to us, so our situation improved. We worked at the railway and we got better food supply.
We were taken to Hajdúhadház and from there to Debrecen where we worked on the Széna square. Once I went into the city with a few fellows of mine. The counter-intelligence arrested us and kept us there until they completed the investigation into our case, because they found us suspicious. I got away with a huge slap, but some of us were beaten to a pulp. When they allowed us to return to our company, we were sent to Berettyóújfalu.  We spent 10 days here and then we went to Biharkeresztes. We were informed that we were arrested in Debrecen because there was a fire and we were accused of it. The guards also suspected us of setting the fire and therefore they treated us brutally and they were beating us. Because of that some of my brothers-in-arms secretly reported the guards. One night a committee arrived, who took steps to replace the captain, so we got a new company commander. From that time on our situation improved.
On January 10, 1944 they took us to Ukraine where we were transferred to company no. 101/35. The commander was a lieutenant from Budapest, who did not do anything for us, unless for money. On one occasion a lot of people were shot dead from the retreating company. The guards shot everyone who fell behind. The company commander saw it, but he did nothing.
Under the leadership of the lieutenant we visited the Polish partisans. Thirty-five labour servicemen lagged behind there. We were, however, entrained and taken to Kunszentmárton. Due to the Russian offensive we could not stay there, therefore we were carried further to Kecskemét. All units were withdrawing there. Our lieutenant ran away and the guards told us to go anywhere we wanted.
I joined company no. 110/3. We worked on the estate of Duke Pálné Esterházy. When the Russians were approaching, we went to Nagyvázsony where we worked on the estate of Count Zichy. When that place was also approached by the Russians, we hid in a forest along with our company commander: a lieutenant, whose wife was Jewish. We were waiting for the Russians. We succeeded in hiding there for three months, but then the Arrow Cross raided the place; they found and arrested us. They kept us under restraint for three days, then they took us to Veszprém and from there to Körmend. They deprived us of everything, beat us severely, and took us on foot to Reinitzdorf that is one kilometre away from the Hungarian border.
In Reinitzdorf the Arrow Cross handed us over to the SS. We built bunkers for six weeks. We arrived on February 21. It was very cold. We had to work outdoors all day and we suffered very much.
Around April 10 we left on foot towards Mauthausen. We were not given any food on the way and we were starving. Once the SS noticed us picking garden sorrels and they shot amongst us. Two of us died and eight of us got wounded. I fainted twice on the way. The doctor of our group was so weak that he could not cure anybody. I was just dragging myself along. I do not know how I was able to get there, but I awoke to find that I was in the camp.
I spent 10 days in Mauthausen. We were starving very much and hundreds of corpses were lying in the yard. Ten days later we went to Günskirchen. There was no room for us and we were packed together like sardines in a tin. We got 180 grams of bread and half a litre of turnip soup every day. A lot of us got nothing and we had to fight for food. If we were fighting, the SS men were beating us with clubs or truncheons. However, we did not care too much, because we were totally weakened by starvation. We hardly got any water and a lot of us caught spotted fever.
The Americans liberated us on May 4, 1945. After that I fell ill with typhus. I was lying ill in a hospital in Wels and then in Schallerbach for six weeks. My wounded hand, which was hit by a bullet, was also cured.
After my recovery I was in a camp in Linz. Then we went to the Russian zone, to Melk. From there I came home with a Czechoslovak transport.