The person in question has given us the following information: 

The Columbus Street camp was protected by the Red Cross, therefore I thought we might find shelter from the Arrow Cross atrocities there. However, on December 2, 1944 it was encircled by the Arrow Cross and all of the tenants were taken to 10 Teleki Square and from there to the Józsefváros railway station. There we were entrained. There were 76 people in our cattle car. We travelled in closed cars for 11 days. The train stopped a lot and sometimes peasants brought us a small piece of bread, but they charged us terribly for them. The price for a piece of bread was a shirt or a watch.  

Four thousand of us were taken to the special camp section of Bergen-Belsen. After arrival, our luggage was searched, but not everything was taken away, only what they liked. Those who were able to save something could exchange the valuables for something with the SS soldiers: one golden watch was worth half a kilogram of bread. The rations were irregular, scarce and bad. It happened that at 8 am we got some watery, unsalted and greaseless turnip soup with a slice of bread, then half a litre of coffee in the evening and the next food distribution was only the next evening. People lost all their strength due to hunger. The special camp differed from the other camp inasmuch as we were not beaten here and we did not have to work. Those who worked in the other camp with the same food supply inevitably perished. Once I was going down to steal some turnips and I was caught. I was punished with two days in the dark cell and when I was released, I was transported to the regular camp. Prisoners were beaten here all time: it was an annihilation camp. People could barely walk and they had to carry iron rails. If somebody collapsed, he was taken to the crematorium, even though he was still alive. There was a barrack, where all the prisoners were beaten to death. The SS men of German-Hungarian ethnic origin especially distinguished themselves in cruelty. 

I had a relative in the special camp and somehow he managed to transport me back. It was a great luck for me, since by then physically I had deteriorated to the point of not being able to carry on with the work and the bad treatment for even another week.  

When the Americans approached, the camp was evacuated. On April 8, 1945 we were entrained. Originally they wanted to take us the Theresienstadt and kill us there, but since it was impossible to transport us there, they planned to blow up the whole train. During one of the air raids four friends of mine and I escaped from the cattle car. Bombs were falling, but we did not consider that a danger; all we wanted was getting away from the Germans. By the time we arrived in the next village, the first American tanks had arrived there too. The soldiers provided us with everything we needed: food and clothes. We were accommodated in one of the villas. It was the first night in a long time that we slept in a clean bed with comforters.