The person in question has given us the following information:

My husband was a contractor of grain; in 1938 his trade licence was withdrawn 
because of the Jewish Laws, and we started living on our savings. My husband had 
to go to a labour camp several times, which made my life even harder.

In 1944, Germans invaded the country. I put on a yellow star and lived in a 
house marked by a yellow star. My husband was called up again and I was left 
with my 15-year-old child. In September, 1944, I got protection from the 
International Red Cross, and the house where I lived was also protected. On the 
4th of December Arrow Cross men came into the house and took away the women 
under 50. We went straight to the Józsefváros railway station where we were 
entrained, there were 44 of us in a freight car. We got no food or drink at all 
while we were in Hungarian territory. We arrived in Zürndorf, where Germans took 
charge of us. They put 70 people in a freight car and took us to Bergen-Belsen. 
This is where we first got some food. We were not insulted during the journey.
      
Having arrived in Bergen-Belsen we were put up in a camp, which was a 
Sonderlager. The block was completely wet, water was dripping on us and two of 
us slept in a 65-cm bed. We did not have to work. Waiting for food filled our 
days entirely. They gave us very little and very bad food. Originally we got 300 
grams of bread a day, which was reduced later to 150 grams. There was turnip 
soup for lunch and bitter coffee for breakfast.

We were very cold since the barrack was unheated all through the winter. Later, 
we were put into another barrack, which was full of lice and fleas. There was a 
common bath. Here too many people starved to death.

After such a life the camp was evacuated because of the pressure of American 
troops, and we were entrained. Typhus broke out on the train and we kept 
carrying dead bodies with us. They gave us one and a half loaves of bread and 
altogether 30 pieces of potatoes. We were very hungry. We went to the nearby 
villages to beg for food, for a few potatoes or turnips, which we cooked.

On the 3rd of April 1945, the Russians liberated us, and after that we had a 
good time. We continued to have typhus and the Russians took us to hospital and 
took control of the disease in a really clever and excellent way.
            
These have been my own experiences.

My future plans? I would like to emigrate to Palestine or maybe to America 
together with my husband and children.