The person in question has given us the following information:

We lived in Ungvár where we ranked among the poorer people. My father worked as a day labourer. After the German occupation in March 1944, he was reported to the police as a Communist. Captured in the street, he was taken in the counter-intelligence office where he was terribly beaten up. They did not allow him to come home, but they took him to where we were, into the ghetto, in terrible condition.
One day the gendarmes came for us. They told us to take with us as many belongings as we could carry, and then they took us into the ghetto. It happened around the middle of April. They took us to work in the city hall where we sorted the belongings collected from the Jewish flats. We saw the men being severely beaten at work. They set up a soup kitchen to provide us with food. We were given bread and two to three decilitres of soup every day. We were not starving, because we were allowed to have the food we had brought from home as well. We were entrained around May 20. Everyone was given one loaf of bread and they put one bucket of water into each car. One empty bucket was used for the purpose of a toilet. Seventy-five of us were in a freight car. The water was not enough, and we were very thirsty in the heat of the closed car. In Kassa the military gendarmes handed us over to the Germans, who gave us some water. We arrived in Auschwitz four days later.
In Auschwitz at the railway station my mother and my four siblings were sent to the left. I could see my father being put on a labourer’s transport. I was sent to the right as well, and I was taken to the bath. We asked the Poles what would happen to the others; they responded that we would meet on Sunday. My mother was crying when she was separated from me. We were taken to the bath, disinfected and had our hair removed. Our regular clothes were replaced by long and loose dresses. We did not have proper underwear and we were very cold. They put me into block 1 of camp A. I was there for six weeks. We did not have to work, but we always had to line up for roll call in the very early morning. It took hours and we wore only a thin dress. Mornings were chilly there and I was very cold.
Six weeks later we went from Auschwitz to Stutthof with a labourer’s transport. We did not have to work there either; we only had to line up for roll calls for hours. They put us into a very small block where we were crammed together. We had two Ukrainian commanders, called Max and Barbara, who were very bad to us and whipped us all the time. If we were too loud when going to bed, they threw water at us. They treated the older women, who were over 40, even more badly. These women got less food, but they had to line up for roll call longer than the younger ones. We spent four weeks in that terrible place, that was even worse than Auschwitz, and then we were taken to Bromberg.
We arrived in Bomberg at the beginning of August. We were working in the N.G.L. bomb factory, and meanwhile we were cutting timber in the forest as well. We worked in gas masks and in the beginning a lot of us fainted, but later we got used to it, and it even happened that we worked without the mask. The Lagerälteste treated us very badly and she was always complaining about us to the Lagerführer. In those cases we were punished: for example our hair was cut, or they locked us up in a bunker where we had to stand for hours. It also happened that we were deprived of our rations. French prisoners were working in the factory as well; they felt very sorry for us and secretly brought us parcels: bread and so on. If the guards noticed that, they beat us up as a punishment. We were working there until January 18, 1945.
When the front was approaching, they took us from Bromberg. We were marching without any food. On the way we met German civilian refugees, whom we asked for food and sometimes they gave us. One day the Germans told us that they would hurry forward and we should follow them. We let the SS guards go forward and then, as soon as they could not see us, we started to go another direction. We reached a farm and we told those people we were German refugees. Of course, we took our camp numbers off before. The front was one kilometre away from us. We took a rest in the farm, then we moved into flats, and we were waiting for the liberation there, which happened five days later. The flat in which I was staying was burned down and therefore the other girls and I went to another farm building, creeping on the ground. I caught a cold and fell ill with dysentery. The Russians liberated me and took me to an infirmary. I was lying there for four weeks and then came home via Krakow.

My mother was gassed with my little siblings. We have not heard anything about my father so far. I am going to wait for him for a couple of weeks, and if he does not come, I will go to Palestine.