The person in question has given us the following information:

I was taken away for trench-digging labour service on October 23 to the grounds of the National Centre for High School Sport Clubs. I was working until November 8 in Vácbattyán; on November 9 I was taken back to the Budapest brick factory.  We were set off on foot for Zürndorf. During the labour service we did not get any food; we had to eat what we had with us. The treatment was also very bad. 
On the morning following my draft, after all of our money and jewellery was taken away, we dug trenches. In the third week the Arrow Cross lined us up and wanted to decimate us. They even made us dig our graves. Meanwhile national guard members phoned Captain Kozma and informed him about what was going on. Soon a messenger arrived and stopped the action. Afterwards we were entrained and taken to Zürndorf where the Germans took over us; we got two days of food immediately and in two days we left for Lanzberg.
In Lanzberg we were put into camp 11, block 23. There were 53 of us in a block and two of us lay on a bunk. It was quite clean and we could wash ourselves. Our daily rations consisted of coffee, soup, a quarter of a portion of bread and 2.5 decagrams of margarine or sausage. We spent two weeks here and then I was selected for a transport of 110 leaving for Türkheim. 
Here we were accommodated in a clean barrack and we could bathe. We were given a pair of warm pants, we could keep our coats and we also got shoes. The treatment was better as well. We were assigned to axe-picking and similar work and on January 5 we were put to a transport of 70 and left for Kaufering. 
In Kaufering we were accommodated in a terribly dirty camp, but the reception was good, since warm coffee and bread was distributed right away. We were assigned to very hard work and in eight days we were taken away from here. 
I left again, this time to Mühldorf. There were 52 of us in a cattle car. We were received and treated well here. I was working in the laundry and the situation was tolerable. I was here until April 23, when we were set off for the Tyrolean Mountains where they wanted to annihilate us, since (as later we learnt) Himmler gave an order that all Jews in Germany had to be killed. Fortunately due to the constant air raids and the approach of the Americans they could not take us up there. They transported us up and down without giving us anything to eat or to drink. The Americans liberated us in Seehausen at 11 am on April 30. 
After returning home I found only four siblings of the six; I do not know what happened to the others. I have no plans for the future.