The person in question has given us the following information:

The 18th of June 1944, two detectives captured me at home and took me to Hotel Lomnic in 
Svábhegy, where they interrogated me with regard to the issue of an unsigned letter that 
government commissioner in charge of Jewish affairs László Endre had received. This was 
a threatening letter. The interrogation lasted two and a half hours. When they finished, 
they led me into a 2x4 metre large room in the Majestic on Svábhegy, where sixty of us 
stayed for three days. Next, they interned me in the camp in Rökk Szilárd Street without 
further interrogations. A few days later, I went into the brick factory of Kecskemét together 
with another ca. 200 people, where they seized all my valuables and documents. The next 
morning, they put us in freight cars and after three days of horrible travel, on the 30th of 
June 1944, I arrived in Birkenau.
In Birkenau, after the usual selections and bath I got into quarantine for two weeks. There 
were around 850 of us, mostly doctors, lawyers and pharmacists, living in a barrack that 
was originally meant to be a stable. We slept on the concrete floor, and it was deemed to be 
a great favour when they covered it with planks. I remember that 32 diabetic people died in 
comas during this time in the barrack, although Hungarian transports had taken great 
quantities of insulin of vital importance, and it was available also in the hospital of the 
camp. They simply did not get insulin.
After these two weeks I got into the camp hospital as a nurse. That time the hospital had a 
Jewish and a Gipsy ward. It remained like this till the 2nd of August 1944, when several 
trucks appeared in front of the hospital, which took away all the gipsy patients including 
elderly people, patients with tuberculosis, with pox and starving children.
At the same time they took away all Gipsy inhabitants of the camp, and as I came to know 
later from a reliable source, all of them, exactly 3451 of them, were gassed. The oft-
mentioned Mengele’s favourite hobby was research in genetic inheritance; therefore he 
treated twins with special attention. Amongst the Gipsy children, there were also three pairs 
of twins, one in the hospital and two pairs in the kindergarten of the camp. In the morning 
of the 2nd of August 1944, Dr Mengele entrusted these children to the head doctor of the 
Gipsy barrack, Dr Rabinovits, and came to fetch them personally by car in the evening. 
Three days later, Mengele arrived in the hospital pretty upset and looked for the doctor 
responsible for the Gipsy children. He rapped him over the knuckles for not examining 
patients with attention, not caring about them, he claimed that doctors were interested only 
in extra food rations, and threatened them with severe reprisals because they had not 
noticed or registered on the card the easily recognisable symptoms of tuberculosis of one of 
the twins. As an answer to the question how this had been known, which was raised by the 
reproached doctor, Mengele produced with a matter-of-fact gesture a necropsy record, in 
which the results of a technically perfect autopsy were proficiently presented regarding the 
little child, who had been evidently killed earlier by gas. (When our transport arrived 
Mengele’s first question was whether there was a pathologist among us, and he kept 
repeating the same question till he found the pathologist of the public hospital of 
Szombathely, Dr Dénes Görög.) Basing my opinion on the two or three very short 
conversations that I had the opportunity to have with Mengele, I join the general 
opinion of the hospital’s doctors that Mengele had in fact neurotic disorders. 
Presumably spotted fever caused him maniac depression, and his obsession was to realise 
eugenic selections, which had been known on a theoretical level already for a long time.
After the more or less six-week service in hospital, I became the Vertreter (second 
commander) of one of the blocks, and as such, I was in charge of around six hundred 14 to 
18-year-old boys. In the first days of September, Mengele did selections among these boys 
and sorted out around 60 percentage of them, and closed them in a separate block. I do not 
know what happened to them in the end, because in the meantime I also left Birkenau, but I 
am convinced that they finished in the crematorium as well. 
In the middle of September, I arrived in Mauthausen with a transport of around 2,000 
people. First, we were lodged in block 21, where the Blockältester and the others in 
“prominent” positions would beat us, causing us serious injuries for the most trivial reasons. 
They used their hands, feet, batons, chairs and any object that fell into their hands. For 
example, there was not a single evening when we managed to go to bed without someone 
being beaten up. Three or four of us lay in a bed. As a result of maltreatment and 
malnutrition soon I got into hospital, where treatment was not better at all. As a doctor I 
managed to enjoy certain privileges, so I was one of the few people who left the hospital 
recovered because most people were as sick if not even sicker when they left as when they 
were referred to hospital. I witnessed the so-called selections personally but also heard 
much about them from my friends in the place. On these occasions a prisoner doctor or one 
of the SS doctors picked the patient who had some organic or chronic diseases, and referred 
them to the Erholungslager, which usually meant the gas chamber.
Together with the other “recovered” patients they took us into the baths of Mauthausen, 
where we had a hot shower and then a very short cold shower. Next, we stood naked and 
barefoot on the stone pavement of the courtyard for one and a half hours. We were put into 
a wooden barrack without heating, and stayed in a single shirt till next morning, when they 
gave us clothes of diverse qualities. During the four weeks I stayed there, I did not get 
shoes, there were only a few clogs placed at the entrance of the barrack that we could put on 
when we went out.
The 2nd of January 1945, 500 of us were transported to Melk. Our job was to drill a hole 
into a sand hill where Germans wanted to set up a factory to produce ball bearings. During 
the year-long work of the camp, deported people, who were dragged here from all over 
Europe, drilled a tunnel which was 8 to 9 kilometres deep, 12 metres wide and 15 metres 
high. During the same period of time 13,500 people died in the camp, where the average 
number of labourers was between 10,000 and 12,000. In the majority of cases death was 
caused by insufficient nutrition and the unwanted tortures and torments that went together 
with the not really heavy work. (Three to four-hour roll calls during the night in light 
clothes.) When at the end of March, the Russians already endangered Melk, they decided to 
evacuate the camp.
My group did the first part of the journey by ship. They crammed around 800 people onto a 
barge. This was how they carried us to Linz in three days. During the voyage we could stay 
up on deck only at mealtime. From Linz we walked till Ebensee.
Ebensee was designed to lodge around 18,000 people and when we arrived, there were 
18,000 people who lived there. Rations were in proportion with it: they were made up of 
daily 150 grams of inedible black bread and a litre and half of soup, in which they put the 
peels of potatoes that were cooked for German soldiers, and allegedly also meat. However, 
if people in the kitchen did not steal the meat, the leaders of the blocks stole it. So I did not 
find a single bit of meat during the three weeks I stayed there. Mortality in the camp was 
around a thousand times higher than in a little town with the same population where 
also children, women and elderly people lived, although we were all men fit for work 
in the best years of our lives. Allegedly it happened more than once that the cadavers 
of people who died in the block were found mutilated by the morning. I only know of 
one case. Whatever moment we might have picked we would have surely caught 
someone eating the most extreme things. For example, guards could not prevent 
people from eating in an alfalfa field, no matter how brutally they beat them. A brown 
type of coal was very popular. Excessive consuming of it led to the death of several people 
because it caused obstinate constipation, from which people died. I also ate edible snails 
and sorrel. About the real horrors of the camp in Ebensee I only know from the stories of 
others because I did not go out to work.
On the tenth day of my stay, I got into the hospital of Ebensee with phlegmon, from which I 
have not entirely recovered yet. During these days eight of us lay on a bunk bed, and 
two others were placed under the bed. But not even in this way did everyone get a 
place. The rest stayed in the middle of the room on covers thrown onto the floor, or on 
the bare plank floor, and it was not unusual if someone died after three-four days of 
hospital stay before anyone would have asked his name or inquired about his problem, 
or given him a place in a bed. The American troops found us under these conditions when 
they liberated us on the 6th of May 1945. For two weeks, no matter hard they tried they 
were unable to reduce the mortality rate because patients were in such an extremely 
enfeebled and exhausted state. When I recovered I was in service on the tubercular ward of 
the reorganised hospital. I felt a particular compassion for 15 to 16-year-old Jewish boys. 
They had received tubercular infections still at home which flared up in the camp, or got 
tuberculosis here, and as far as I could see they were irremediably destined to die in a year 
or two. If these boys had remained at home nothing would have happened to them.