The persons in question have given us the following information: 


The anti-Jewish measures began in 1938, but being craftsmen, we had not been affected by them and we had been allowed to work until we had to move into a yellow star house. We were desperate about those measures, but we could do nothing against them. (H.H.) I was working for the Jewish Council, therefore I could avoid being called up for labour service or being taken to clear rubble. When I had to report on the KISOK ground, they declared me redundant and I was allowed to go home. Later I acquired Swiss protection and I moved into a Swiss protected house at 5## Pozsonyi Road in early November. We lived there for four weeks. One morning Arrow Cross men entered the premises and revised the Swiss protective documents. Irrespective of the results, they took everybody away to 5 Teleki Square. We spent two days there without any food. On the evening of the second day (December 2) they entrained us without any food or water. There were 40 of us in a cattle car until we reached the border. At Zürndorf the Germans took over the train and they put 130 more people into the car. We were not allowed to leave the car for two or three days. After an 11-day journey we arrived in Bergen-Belsen. Plenty of us fell ill with diarrhoea, including us. We were immediately taken to hospital. We were lying ill in bed for six weeks and after that I was appointed as a nurse. (H.H.) My little sister stayed by my side as a patient. Meanwhile S.A. lived in the block with the other fellow prisoners.
We were starving. We got a little coffee at 5 in the morning, some soup at lunchtime and 200 grams of bread. Besides we got 25 grams of margarine twice a week. We stayed in a barrack that was full of lice, therefore we got infested with lice as well. They did not provide us with soaps, towels or anything to wash ourselves with. Our belongings were taken away.
There were plenty of deaths, at least 40 or 50 a day, mainly because of starvation and diseases caused by lice. They always inflicted severe punishment on us. For example it happened that they docked all of the prisoners of their rations for two days. Those who stole something were trussed up or shot dead. There was a young man, who stole some turnips because he was hungry and he was shot dead on the spot. Starvation was horrible and we suffered very much.
We had a lot of trouble with the cold weather as well. We lived in a barrack where not only the rain was coming in, but it was so humid that we had to cover our heads against the dampness even when being in there. It was constantly raining and we had to line up for roll call for three to four hours in the cold weather. Our life went on like this until April. We had very few clothes and we got no blankets either. The quality of the food was gradually deteriorating; in the last few weeks it was definitely much worse. It happened that we were to get lunch at noon and instead we got it at midnight. Similarly we were supposed to have dinner at 7 and we got it only at 4 the following morning. We were woken up early in the morning to go to have dinner. They docked us of our margarine Zulage and reduced our rations of bread too. There were days when we got no bread at all. Later they gave us a maximum of 150 grams of bread daily. The only change was that the quality of the food deteriorated by 50 %, if it was possible at all.
We were suddenly set off on April 7, because the English were coming. We were taken to the railway and 70 of us were put into a freight car. We were told that we would be taken to Theresienstadt. One train could not hold all the prisoners from our camp, and therefore 300 Hungarian women from Budapest missed that train. Instead, we were entrained along with Dutch women, who had been prisoners in the same special camp. We departed and along the way sometimes we met the prisoners from the other train. Once we stopped and five days passed until they could take us further. We spent two weeks in the freight cars, and during that period of time we got only 10 potatoes per person. We were starving so much that whenever the train stopped, we picked some nettle and ate it. There were plenty of deaths because of the starvation. Four people died in our car; we travelled together with the dead bodies until we had a chance to put them out. We travelled under such circumstances for two weeks, and then the train stopped near Tröbitz on a Sunday evening. On Monday the Russians arrived and we were liberated.
Our plans for the future: I would like to go to Paris (S.A.) and we would like to go to Palestine (H.H. and I.H.).