The persons in question have given us the following information: 

We were entrained by gendarmes from the Munkács brick factory. They beat us all the time; I remember that they beat four people to death. After suffering for three days and nights we arrived in Auschwitz. After the arrival the already known process started: selection, bathing, cropping and accommodation. 
We were assigned to camp C. There was no regular work: we were counted the whole day, then we queued up in endless lines for hours to get half a litre of soup and 20 decagrams of bread. 
Since I had relatives working at the Brezsinka, therefore I was there on more than one occasion with the garbage wagon. I already knew that those who were sent to the right after the arrival, i.e., the elderly and the young mothers with the children were taken to crematorium right away. 
I spent six months in Auschwitz and then we were entrained and transported to Ravensbrück. In this camp we were in quarantine for two weeks, since there was a typhoid fever epidemic. Afterwards we were taken to Barth to work in an aircraft factory. The treatment was really bad: when there was an air alert we were driven back to the camp like dogs. We worked from 7 am to 7 pm in day and night shifts. The rations were very scarce: in the beginning the four of us got a one-kilogram loaf of bread, but later eight prisoners got the same amount. Considering the work we had to perform it was very scarce. We suffered a lot from hunger. Many grew very weak; these were taken to hospital. The factory was not heated, so the cold was another source of suffering. 
From Barth we were taken to Schwarzenfos. We worked in an aircraft factory here too, which was not completely finished yet. Therefore we could not work permanently and we were assigned to outdoor work, such as carrying sand and stone; others made barbed wires. SS female overseers guarded us and they were very cruel to us. People were loosing their strength due to hunger in this camp too, since the small amount of bread and half a litre of soup we got were not enough for our bodies. 
From here we were taken to Warnemende on foot. The distance was ca. 20 kilometres. We suffered a lot from hunger. On the way the prisoner scattered and the SS did not care about it anymore. I kept on walking with 16 other fellow prisoners and finally we met the glorious Russian troops who liberated us. Since we all were very weak we rested in the village for two weeks. We managed to get home partly on foot and partly by train with the help of the Russian troops.