The persons in question have given us the following information:

When we arrived in Auschwitz, they right away separated us from our parents and siblings 
at the railway station. They selected us for the group of people fit for work, and took us 
directly into the baths, where they seized all our belongings, and cut our hair off. After the 
bath they gave us some trashy clothes and led us into a block. It was already late evening 
when we got into the block. We were very tired and hungry but we did not get anything to 
eat that day. We lay on the bunk, on bare planks without covers, in a single garment. Next 
day, early in the morning, they chased us out to line up for roll call, which lasted for hours 
both in the morning and the afternoon. This was the same everyday.
 Once a week they took us into a disinfecting building, where every time they changed our 
clothes and gave us even dirtier and shabbier ones.
 At the beginning, we thought that our relatives were alive but later we learned that they had 
been gassed and burnt in the crematorium on the day of their arrival.
 Sometimes it happened that they made selections twice a week. It meant that the weak and 
the sick were selected from us and were all taken into the crematorium. Dr Mengele, Greze 
and Drechslerka did the selections. In the children’s block, selections happened the 
following way: Dr Mengele gave a cordial talk to the children and told them that if 
any of them had any kind of minor problem, had some sort of pain they should report 
it and they would be carried to hospital where they would get treated. They took them 
away as they promised, but they never returned.
 One day, they selected also me for a transport without my sister, and moved me into Camp 
B3. We stayed here for 6 weeks. During this time we did not work at all. The 10th of 
February, they entrained us and carried us to Weisswasser. We got into a very clear block 
and slept in beds. We got very little to eat. For breakfast we received a very small portion of 
soup, three quarters of a litre of soup at noon and 250 grams of bread; for dinner we got 
nothing. We prepared ammunition in a glass factory. We worked 10 hours a day. It was a 
relatively hard job. Later, I prepared the inner parts of spotlights. They treated us in an 
endurable way both in the factory and the block.
 When the front got closer to us we received the order to leave the place. We started the 
journey on foot and two days later continued by train, in freight cars. On the road we got 
food only twice. When we crossed Hamburg we had a serious air raid but luckily no one got 
hurt among us. We carried on and arrived in Harneburg. Only a few of us were assigned 
work because there was nothing to do any more. The same factory had been moved here for 
which we worked in Weisswasser. An Unterscharführer arrived here the same day as we did 
and he was very cruel to us. For example, if someone stole a piece of carrot and he noticed 
it, the person got 25 blows with a baton. If the food was not finished and someone asked for 
a second portion he would grab her and beat her till she fainted. 
 When the English got very close to us they took us to Bergen-Belsen. We did not work 
here at all. The 15th of April, the English arrived and liberated us.
 My next goal is to get to Palestine as soon as possible.