The persons in question have given us the following information:

In June 1944, they took me away from Palota into the brick factory of Budakalász, where we 
stayed for 10 days guarded by the SS. This was already a good school for the future.

The 6th of July, they entrained us. There were 56 of us in a freight car. We believed we were 
being transported to work somewhere but seeing the route we could sooner or later guess that 
we were heading abroad. Indeed, we were taken into Auschwitz. We arrived there the early 
morning of the 9th of July. We had to leave our luggage at the railway station by the freight 
cars. Old prisoners in striped clothes put them on trucks and we believed we would soon get 
them back.

Dr Mengele did the selections at the station. He sent the weak, the elderly and mothers with 
children to the left side, and people fit for work to the right side. We were separated from men 
who were selected the same way. They took us into the baths allegedly in order to disinfect 
us. But they did not only disinfect us but also cut our hair off, depilated all the hair and made 
us undress. In return for our seized clothes we got a dress and in lucky cases also a piece of 
underwear and a shirt. It was already late afternoon when we got ready and when they led us 
into Camp C, where I was lodged in the room of the toilet and the bath. One could not even sit 
down. Three days later, they took me into block 30. By that time we already knew quite a lot. 
We learnt that the elderly, the weak and young mothers with children had been sent to the 
other side not because they wanted to carry them into the camp by car but to kill them with 
gas. Since there was another building of baths on the station of Brežinka, which was only 
disguised as baths, in reality it was a gas chamber. The crematoria (as far as I know there 
were four) were burning day and night because new transports followed one another. During 
the night huge flames lit the sky, dense black smoke wreathed above the camp; the stink 
was awful, you could not get rid of it: it permeated the nose and the clothes.

Our block was furnished the following way: bunk beds with three storeys were on its two 
sides. Climbing up on the third bunk was a serious exercise. 10-12 of us lay on these bunks. 
We had no covers on our own; around twelve of us shared 5-6 of them. We lay on hard planks 
without straw. We lay so pressed to each other that we got wet of the sweat of our neighbours. 
In the middle of the block there was a long brick heater, which could be heated at both ends.
Early at dawn, which may be called still the night, we had to go to the kitchen for coffee. 
Every day forty or sixty people went for the vessels. And they woke up people because of this 
bitter dishwater a few hours before roll call, which followed only later. We were standing 
outside for hours while it was dawning. This was repeated every day, and there was a roll call 
even in the afternoon. It was the peak of the day in as much as it was the time when bread was 
distributed together with Zulag, which was either margarine or jam or salami but everything 
in a tiny portion. The soup at noon was quite dense, and its density was increased also by the 
sand and sometimes the pebbles it contained. In fact, the noon soup cannot be called “noon”, 
since, as coffee was distributed at night, vessels of soup were lined up in front of the block 
sometimes already at 9 am. We had difficulties swallowing it but we were hungry and no 
quantity was enough. It was an incredible joy when every once in a while we could have more 
than a bowl of this terrible concoction.

In August, I was taken away from Auschwitz together with several thousands of people. We 
received food for a two days trip. When transports were about to leave people were lined up 
for roll call. When they finished they hurried them to the station of Brežinka shouting “Los! 
Los! Rasch! Mensch, hau ab!” and beat them. We did not leave in order to work but were 
unfortunately transported into Stutthof, where we suffered bitterly for four weeks. We got lice 
as there was no opportunity to bath, we were not allowed to go to the bathroom, and were 
beaten.

It was like redemption when 300 of us were transported into Torn to work for the AIG plant. 
We dug trenches for three weeks before we returned to Stutthof. The same suffering started 
again: the ban on bathing and using the toilet, and beatings. Six weeks later we got into a 
transport again and the first of November we arrived in Magdeburg, where we worked for an 
ammunition plant.

Our camp was quite decent, 300 of us lived in a block. Rations were bad. Like most prisoners 
the only thing we got as soup of the day was turnips cooked in water. In the morning we 
received bitter coffee, in the evening very little bread with 20-30 grams of margarine, 
sometimes sausage or half a spoonful of jam.

The 13th of April, we did not go to work. They led us out of the camp to run away from 
approaching Americans. First, they took us into a forest. We had nothing to eat, since what we 
got was nothing. They chased us from one village to another. Very many of us died on the 
way. Finally, at the end of April, we were liberated in Zerbs.