The person in question has given us the following information: 

Approximately 1000 Jews were taken to Poland from Irholz after the Hungarians had marched in. By the German occupation in 1944 only a few Jewish families had lived there. One day at the beginning of April, gendarmes came to us and told us to pack up because they would have to take us into the ghetto. They asked us if we had any valuables and demanded money and gold. They took us into the Sajovits brickyard in Munkács where we built places for ourselves from bricks. I saw gendarmes and SS men beating the men severely, but they did not hurt the women. We were staying there for two weeks. Then we were taken to the station and entrained. Sixty of us were in a freight car, each of us got one kilogram of bread and they put one bucket of water into each car. They put a bucket of cabbages in each car as well, but it was totally dried out and nobody wanted it, therefore we threw it away. Hungarian gendarmes escorted us until Kassa, and then they handed us over to the SS. Three days later we arrived in Auschwitz.
On the railway station in Auschwitz I was separated from my parents and made stand apart from them along with my two siblings. I was crying very much and told them that I wanted to stay with my parents, but the Germans did not allow me to do so. They told me I would meet them the following day.
We were taken to the bath and got a haircut. Our clothes were taken away; our shoes of better quality were taken as well and were replaced with clogs. Then I was sent into camp A. I suffered a lot in Auschwitz. Reveille was at 3 am; we lined up for roll call at 4. It was dark and cold and we were freezing in our thin clothes, which we got in the bath. If somebody was missing, we were forced to kneel down as a punishment. There were selections in the block frequently: the weak and the ill were taken away.
At one of the selections my two siblings, with whom I was there, were put on a labourer’s transport and taken to Stutthof.
After four weeks I was taken from Auschwitz to Mersen with a transport. We were performing very hard work: we were digging trenches for 12 hours a day. Our break was so short that we could hardly have our lunch. Our food supply was 300 grams of bread and one litre of soup per day, some coffee in the evening, sometimes with Zulage. We were working there for one month and then taken to Leibisch.
In Leibisch we were digging trenches as well. Our food supply was very good there. Two of us got one loaf of bread, one litre of rich vegetable soup for lunch and some coffee and Zulage in the evening. Those who were working hard were not hurt by the SS soldiers. They were especially satisfied with my work. We were working there for one month as well and then taken to Friedenwald.
In Friedenwald my shoes became completely ragged and therefore I could not go out to work. The weather was very cold and we were forced to dig the frozen ground. They allowed me to stay for a while, but then I was forced to go out to work. I worked in the fields in slippers and my feet were wrapped up in rags. It was the same with other girls as well. One month later 500 of us were selected and taken to Stutthof.
I arrived in Stutthof ill, and I was totally barefoot. I was put into a barrack where 1000 of us were crammed together in a small room. There were 40-50 deaths every day. They were taken to the crematorium. We hardly got any food and we were weak and teeming with lice. We were there for four months, but we did not see any bread. The turnip soup was like water, only a few turnips were in it. We got only potato peels, because the potatoes were eaten by our commanders. That was a terrible place. We had no blankets or straw, and we were lying on the bare ground, therefore we could not sleep for nights. Two weeks later I was taken to the infirmary block no. 29. When I got better, I nursed the ill from 6 am to 6 pm. Then I was relieved. For that work I got five cooked potatoes and one litre of soup. I grew very thin. A lot of dead people were taken out of the infirmary. Two or three crematoria were working all day. There were constant air raids. Once the infirmary was hit as well and only a few patients survived. Two nurses died as well.
We stayed in Stutthof until April. One day they gave us a half of a loaf of bread, a half pack of margarine and some meat per person, and then we were entrained and taken away. We were moving for days with plenty of stops. Four days later we were out of food and we did not get any food later on. Once we stopped at a big lake and we drank from the water. We could not sleep and lice were feeding on us in the freight cars. We suffered a lot. We had nothing for six days except for water; many prisoners perished.
Upon our arrival in Neustadt we got off and we went into a big forest. There we were to get a half litre of soup, but at least half of us got nothing. Many fell victim to an air-raid on the way.
In the evening in the forest the SS men left us and escaped. It was dark and we did not know what to do. There were other prisoners there, with the help of whose we crossed the water. We found a lot of turnips and therefore we had enough food. I even got some sorrels from a woman and I cooked it. However, the SS men returned at night and shot at us. They shot dead those who were too weak to walk and stayed in the freight cars. They arranged us in rows of five and took us to the town of Neustadt. On the way there were air raids again, but the SS men did not let us hide. It was raining heavily and we were wet and cold: we had hardly anything on. We had been gone for a couple of hours when the guards told us to go in the opposite direction. We turned back and saw Americans coming. As soon as we turned back, the Germans disappeared.
The Americans took us into a barrack and gave us food because they realised we were in such terrible condition. I was very ill, my feet got swollen and I could not even eat because of weakness and exhaustion. The Americans took care of our hygiene: they disinfected and washed us and we got clean clothes and shoes. We could stay there for three months.
On the way home I was staying in Prague for a couple of days. The Red Cross took care of everything and I received a lot of things there. I am going to return to my home village now, because I heard in Prague that my two sisters and my brother had already been at home waiting for me.