The person in question has given us the following information:

I received a call-up order to labour service on 8th May 1944. We worked in Pusztamizse, but a 
week later we were taken to Pest. Lieutenant Ujváry was the commander of the twin company. He 
gave a speech telling us to come to our senses, and that this was military service, not black 
marketing, etc. He normally used an extremely bad language when he spoke to his company. 
 
János Kórody Katona, former Member of Parliament was the commander of our company. He also 
held a speech in which he promised that we would be treated like gentlemen, he only asked for 
discipline and obedience. And he kept his promise. In Pest we worked at different places as an air 
raid company. The sergeant of the hospital of garrison No. 10, Ede Linek from Kispest beat my 
fellows with a rubber whip while he was saying unprecedented insults in order to make us work 
harder. Kórody prevented him by command from continuing to beat and insult us. Seeing Linek’s 
method, the person in charge, János Rátóti from Újszász, encouraged by a lieutenant called Bálint, 
used different clubs due to the lack of whips. Kórody prohibited this by an order and punished it 
with depriving from leave. 

After the takeover of the Arrow Cross, Kórody Katona acquired Vatican safe conducts for the 
whole company, and also for every single relative of all the men in the company. He provided me 
with an escort and an appropriate document to be able to find my mother in the brick factory in 
Óbuda. He achieved at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the relatives of the people in our 
company received nine separate houses assigned to them. Later on one day the Ministry cancelled 
the assignment of the houses and declared that if our relatives did not move into the houses still on 
that day, they would be deported. Kórody asked brave volunteers from us. Eighty of us marched 
out to the surroundings of Szent István Boulevard without armbands. Kórody had been awaiting us 
there with the secretary of the papal embassy and said that we all were delegates of the nunciature 
and that we were going to the protected houses to take firm steps to have our relatives be 
accommodated. He was arranging the accommodation of our relatives in the protected houses till a 
quarter to twelve at night. He was dismissed within three days. 

A lieutenant called Varga was the new commander of our company. No special objection was 
raised about him, only he followed the official orders too strictly. He set us off on the way without 
any food and left the enormous stores of food there. When Kórody learned about that they were 
taking us away he came to the railway station and walked through every cattle car, but he could not 
do anything for us. They dragged us to Bruck an der Leitha, where we did earthwork for the SA. I 
was lucky because being a medical student I was assigned to work as a male nurse in the hospital. I 
worked there till 30th March. Then they took me to Mauthausen. I was lucky again, because I could 
go with the ill people by train. 

In Mauthausen I again worked at the medical service. I had a sad job, I had to identify the corpses 
and to take them away. In mid April I was sent to Günskirchen with the second transport. Many of 
our people died on the way. Those, who were not able to keep pace with the group or staggered just 
a little was sentenced to death, because the SS men looked through the row and shot them down. 
The march was extremely difficult to bear and we were given food only one time during the three-
day long march. I carried some people on my back in turns, these people I had pulled out of the 
ditch already. Although the SS men shot dead those who fell behind, but if they saw that somebody 
was by them and took care of them, they let them continue. I brought them back to life using 
artificial respiration and I carried those whom I could, along. If a young SS man saw this, he did 
not let me do it, it was mostly the older ones who did.  

We lived in terrible circumstances in Günskirchen, in filth, in famine, squeezed together 
unimaginably and without any water. Several kinds of illness killed the people like diarrhoea, 
typhus fever and complete exhaustion because of starving.  

I helped my ill friends as much as I could, I got Symathol in exchange for my bread ration. I 
worked by Dr. Károly Vogel, Jewish physician from Pest, who performed miraculous medications. 
He had no medicine, no place, no instruments, so he had no chance to cure them, yet, he cured the 
people with his personal and medical abilities. 

On 4th May 1945 the American troops arrived and liberated us. I got typhus fever after the 
liberation. The Americans took me to hospital and cured me from it. We suffered from the 
antisemitism of the Americans already in the hospital and later too. The Negroes, on the other hand, 
were extremely good to us.