The person in question has given us the following information:

We arrived in Auschwitz at night. The Polish who were working at the station warned me not 
to care about the luggage and that I should leave my three children in the care of an old 
woman. Unfortunately, as it was night, I did not find an old woman so it was my wife who 
went with the three children to the right side, while I went to the left side. They took us into 
the baths where they seized all our belongings except for our shoes and suspenders, which we 
could keep. Later, they cut our hair off, bathed us and gave us prisoner’s clothes. They took us 
from the baths to Camp A into the block of Gipsies, where we stayed for four days. 
Unfortunately, I have heard nothing of my family ever since. Later, I could see and was told 
that the people sent to the other side got into the crematorium. Moreover, for four months I 
kept observing arriving transports, which were made up of 50 freight cars with around 3,200 
people, and saw that around 500 men and 300 women got into the camp each time, while the 
rest was taken directly into crematorium. I arrived with one of the last transports because I 
had been in hiding for 9 weeks at home before the police found me and carried me into the 
ghetto of Monor from where they deported me into Auschwitz. Later, I got to know that the 
people who were taken into crematorium were first poisoned with gas and then burnt. I could 
see day and night how the flames of the two chimneys lit the sky.
At beginning our lodging was quite bad, we lay on the floor upon a blanket but had nothing to 
cover our bodies with. When they selected Gypsies they left the children and better 
looking women and carried away the others, who were crying, by cars in the evening. 
When we looked around in the morning we saw only their stuff left in the street. A great 
number of blankets were now there unused, which we received. When these selections were 
made they ordered block curfew and no one could leave the building.
When I arrived I did not do any work for two months, later, I was assigned to assist in the 
kitchen.
Every day at daybreak we were lined up for roll call for around 2 hours. If the number they 
counted was not right we had to stand there longer as a punishment. We were beaten a lot 
without any reason.
Selections were made usually every two weeks. On the occasions of greater holidays, like 
for instance at New Year or Yom Kippur selections were greater, too. On one of these 
holidays they selected 1,500 children between the age of 12 and 18, and we surely know that 
they got into crematorium. Dr Mengele and his companions did these selections.
I was selected for a transport and taken into Dachau. During all the winter I worked in 
Arbeitslager no. 1 for the Moll Leonhardt Company, which was a company of Munich. We 
prepared hangars of reinforced concrete and cement. For example we constructed a 30 metres 
long reinforced concrete wall.
At the beginning treatment was quite nice but later it got gradually worse. It was the same 
with rations. We got bread and some Zulag at the workplace at 10 am, where we also got 
some soup at noon, but later only tea instead of soup, and finally nothing. In the evening we 
got a plate of soup in the camp. We worked 12 hours a day in two shifts changing shift every 
fortnight. We were badly rushed at work. If someone could not keep pace he got beaten by the 
men of the "Organisation Todt". At the beginning we were allowed to warm up in our place, 
because we worked in the open day and night during the winter, but later it was also 
prohibited. As a result, a great number of people died. On a winter day around 10-20 people 
died. These people died because of exhaustion and partly because of cold. I also became weak 
and got into the infirmary, and from there into Camp 4 of the convalescent, where the number 
of sick people were around 5,000. They treated us very badly here. We just lay all day long 
living on three quarters of a litre of watery soup and 150 grams of bread. As a consequence, 
we got weaker and weaker every day, and more and more people died – so much so that their 
number was around 100-120 a day. Exhausted and enfeebled people were gathered here from 
all camps.
When Germans saw that the frontline was getting closer they carried us into the main camp of 
Dachau. Unfortunately, this journey ended with a great tragedy since we had a severe air raid, 
and half of the sick people died. This was caused partly by the air raid and partly by the fact 
that we travelled in open freight cars in bad weather. Having arrived in Dachau we stood there 
from the afternoon till 9 am the next morning, when SS men came with their dogs and took us 
into the lager. Later, we went into the baths but in the afternoon Americans already entered 
the camp and liberated us. My future plan is to get to Palestine as soon as possible.