The person in question has given us the following information:

We were entrained from the Mohács ghetto on 15th of May, 1944.
The journey was horrible, because ca. eighty people were jammed into a freight car, where 
there was not enough place for us to sit down on the bare ground. We did not have luggage 
any more, because it had been taken away from us in the ghetto. There was neither water nor 
a toilet, therefore we suffered much during the whole journey, and also because of the great 
heat and the crowd. The train left for Kassa, where SS troops took us over.

After three days and three nights of travelling, we arrived in Birkenau. A lane of SS troops 
with bayonets were standing at the station, and we marched in single lines in front of Dr 
Mengele, the selecting doctor, who selected the younger ones, who were sent to the left side, 
while mothers with children – the young ones too – and the elderly went to the right. 
Unfortunately, I do not know exactly what happened to these, but one thing is for certain, that 
no one saw them any more after that day.
Then came the bath. We marched naked in single lines in front of the SS soldiers in a huge 
room. Our hair was cut off, and we had a bath. Then we were clothed in shabby clothes, in 
which we had no human form any more, and we set off for the barracks.

I was assigned to a block where there were ca. 1,000 people, there could be eleven people 
lying on a bunk. Sleeping, for example, was only possible in a way that if one person turned, 
everybody had to do the same, otherwise we would not have fitted.

Our job was to report for roll call already at 3 in the morning, until 8 in the morning. Until 
that time we stood erect. There was no mercy even if it was pouring. In the cold night, in wet 
clothes, baldhead, we suffered immeasurably. In the morning, after the Appell, distribution of 
food followed, which consisted of half a decilitre of bitter black coffee, in the afternoon we 
were given a little empty soup, and in the evening, after the Appell that lasted for hours again, 
we got ca. 150 grams of bread and 20 grams of margarine or jam.
We were allowed to return in the blocks only in the evening, therefore for the whole day, even 
if it was pouring with rain or baking hot, we were lying in front of the blocks, on the ground.
We were beaten a lot: when someone put on a shawl because of cold, when we made a bag for 
our bread and were caught with it. As a punishment we had to stay on the knees the whole day 
and did not receive any food, either.
Three weeks later, there were selections, and we were taken to Krakow-Plaszow in freight 
cars. Here we had to work very hard, carrying huge stones and bricks up and down the 
mountain without any purpose and meaning. In addition, we were using pickaxes and 
shovelling on the mountains from early morning to late evening under the supervision of the 
so-called “capos,” who had whips and were waiting for every opportunity to hit us.
We were forced to work constantly from 5 in the morning to 7 in the evening, and it did not 
matter whether it was pouring rain or scorching hot. We suffered through all this in a single 
thin dress, without a coat. We found human bones all over the place, because this territory 
had previously been the Krakow cemetery, which Germans ploughed up and built the camp 
on. Supplies were very meagre, we got the same barley gruel all the time.
When Russian troops were approaching, we were all of a sudden entrained. The journey was 
even more horrible than that to Birkenau, because there were 135 people in a freight car. The 
heat was enormous, they gave us no water, there was no toilet again, and we were travelling 
in these conditions without any food for two nights and two days. We were told that we would 
get to a better camp, when, to our greatest surprise, we found ourselves back in Birkeanu 
when we got off. Here the already known procedures began again, such as selections, baths, 
haircut. Dr Mengele made the weaker ones stand aside in the baths, and we never saw them 
again.
The same day, after a whole day of roll call, our left arm was tattooed and they registered our 
precise data on cards, which we had to sign.
We did not have to work, the whole day again consisted of Appells, from early morning until 
late evening in a single thin dress and bald. We suffered a lot from hunger and cold. We could 
not go into the barracks the whole day, only in the evening. Early in the morning, we would 
find safety in the toilet, which was a huge room, but thousands of us would hide there in the 
mornings because of the cold. But we could stay only for a short while, because cleaning 
started early, and then all of us were driven out of the place with iron shovels. Because it was 
always cold in the morning in Birkenau, we tried to help ourselves by standing close to each 
other, thus warming each other with our bodies.
One day, around the 20th of September, there was a sudden Appell, the weaker ones were 
again selected, and the stronger ones were taken away in a transport. That is when I got to 
Neustadt. We were travelling for one day in a freight car. I was assigned for factory work, 
namely a spinning-factory. The treatment was not too bad, and so was the food. I worked 
from 5 in the morning to 3:30 in the afternoon, the other shift was from 3:30 in the afternoon 
to 12 at night. 
From Neustadt I got to Bergen-Belsen, where I arrived on 15th of January, this year. We did 
not have to work, there were only Appells the whole day, but we suffered immeasurably 
because of the cold, because we had no coats and our clothes were thin. The food was also so 
little that 20-25 people died of exhaustion every day. When American troops liberated us, 
they found only 200 of us out of 500 people. One of my friends, for example, who had no 
problems the previous evening, was lying dead on her bunk.
In the afternoon of 20 May we suddenly realised that American troops arrived in the camp, 
who liberated us, and provided us with food and clothes. We were taken to Bergen, later to 
Zolle and from here we were transported back home through Pilsen.