The person in question has given us the following information: 
 
When the Germans occupied Budapest I was staying there by chance. Luckily, I managed 
to come home to Turz using Christian papers. The Jews were engaged in agriculture here, 
and they were not short of anything. At dawn on one April day, gendarmes came to our 
flat and we had to give our money, gold and jewellery to them. They made us pack up 
food, blankets and clothes and we had to go to the synagogue. There we spent a day and 
then they put our baggage on carts and moved us to the ghetto in Nagyszöllős. The ghetto 
comprised two streets. It was enclosed by a fence and gendarmes guarded it. People 
generally thought that many Christians were closed up in isolated quarters of cities 
in America as a reprisal, and an exchange program would be started in order to 
liberate the Jews and Christians in captivity. 
 
The village chief of Turz was called László Hajduk; he knew the financial conditions of 
Jews and he acted as an informer of the police. Another search and interrogation for 
money and valuables was started based on his suggestion. Naturally, it was done with the 
use of the most serious physical abuse.  
 
Four of my fellows and me managed to buy off the gendarme standing on guard, so we 
escaped. The ethnic Germans living nearby caught us, they beat us up very harshly 
and handed us over to the gendarmes. They took us to Csap, from where they moved 
us to Birkenau with the first transport coming from Mátészalka. 85 of us were put in a 
cattle car; we received food and water. One of our fellows was killed by the gun of an SS 
soldier. In Auschwitz, after the selection they sent me to the bath, they cut my hair, took 
my clothes away and gave me striped prisoner's clothes. For the first week I lived in a 
Gipsy barrack, but later I worked in the Auschwitz ammunition factory as a skilled fitter. 
I worked two hours during the day or at night. The work was horrible. I lived in an old 
Polish garrison, in good circumstances. Our food supplies comprised the following: 300 
grams of bread, some soup, margarine and vegetables. 1,200 of us worked in the factory 
for 9 months. 
 
Due to the approaching of the Russians, we went on foot to Gleiwitz in January; from 
there they took us to Gross Rosen where they treated us extremely badly. Later, as a 
skilled labourer I was sent to Bolkeau together with several of my fellows; there they 
robbed us completely of every possession. From there they took us to Hirschberg in 
February, then to Reichenau and Buchenwald. We were cold and we starved a lot. A lot 
of people died in the cattle cars. Those who survived were taken to Weimar. Later we 
marched to Flossenburg; many people fell victim to bomb attacks on the way. We stayed 
there for a short time and then we set off towards Dachau. The Americans liberated us on 
the way.