The person in question has given us the following information:
 
We lived in Uzsok. In 1941, when Hungarians entered the country they transported me and 
my parents into Poland as Polish citizens. My four brothers and sisters were left home. Me 
and my mother were allowed to return to Uzsok in 1942. The camp where my father stayed in 
Poland was set on fire and he was burnt inside. I came back with my mother and we stayed in 
hiding all the time. Once they caught us, identified us and interned me and my mother and 
two of my brothers and in 1943 they deported us into Poland, in Rotsche. We were liberated 
there two months later and came to Ungvár. 
 
In April 1944, after that Germans had invaded the country they put us into the brick factory of 
Ungvár. We stayed there a month then were taken into Auschwitz. At the station my mother 
was selected for the group of the elderly together with my two little brothers while I was 
ordered to stay on the right side. They took us in the baths, cut our hair, changed our dress and 
gave us wooden shoes and closed us into Camp C. I was selected for the kitchen and worked 
from 2,30 at dawn till 12 at night. Slovakian and Polish girls were prodding and beating me 
all the time. I was continuously crying. I often felt sorry for my female partners who were 
starving and wanted to bring them some food. If they caught me they beat me up terribly. 
Often the punishment was to hold two stones in our arms and stand with hands up for two 
hours. Our hair was cut down to baldness and could not wear shawls. 
 
I worked 6 months in Auschwitz then was selected for a transport of labourers and they took 
me into Landsberg. 
 
In Landsberg I was a member of the outlying Kommando. We made roads, collected stones, 
cut trees in woods. We had no shoes, walked on barefoot, and had flimsy clothes. We had a 
terrible cold. We stayed here 3 months before they transported us into Bergen-Belsen. 
 
We arrived in Bergen-Belsen in January, where we continued to work in the open. We went to 
the forest to saw trees. The SS beat us. We were not allowed to talk to each other during 
work. Once a transport of 50-60 year-old women of Pest arrived and was kept there for 4 
weeks. They were starving so much that almost all of them died. We got also only 100 grams 
of bread and a half litre of carrot soup. Starvation made us really weak. 
 
In February, they took us to Lispstadt, where we stayed for 2 weeks before we continued 
towards Breslau. 
 
In Breslau we worked for an ammunition plant. After two months of work the frontline got 
close and we had to leave Breslau on foot. We walked for four weeks. We did not get food, 
we ate green plants, sorrel, nettle and raw potatoes. We walked during the night and slept in 
the woods during the day. We were escorted by SS men and women. A lot of people passed 
away during this travel, out of 8,000 there were 2,000 survivors. They were going to throw 
into the Elba even the surviving 2,000 people but had no time for that as the Russians 
liberated us the 28th of April. 
 
After the liberation we got hold of food and put on clean clothes and then kept on walking. 2 
weeks later we arrived in Mühlberg, where we went into a clean camp and stayed there for 
another 3 weeks. We carried on into Steinberg, where we passed another month. We came 
home via Prague. We stayed in Prague for 5 weeks. We were treated there very decently and 
very well. 
 
In Budapest I have learnt that a brother of mine left for Palestine. I will follow him with the 
next transport going to Palestine.