The person in question has given us the following information:

I was entrained on November 28 at the Józsefváros railway station as a member of a labour service company enjoying diplomatic protection. There were 98 of us in a cattle car. On the way we begged the gendarmes to deliver postcards to our family members, so that they would know what had happened to us. They charged 100 to 500 pengős for it and as far as I know, none of those cards were delivered. 
We were taken to Fertőrákos via Zürndorf where the SA took over us. We were accommodated in barns. We got 33 decagrams of bread and some thick soup. Later the quality of the food improved. We constructed fortifications. The treatment was the worst possible; brutality was an every day occurrence. When once three boys escaped, the members of the Jewish Police were shot dead. The SA men called Hübner and Ziegler were especially evil. 
On March 26 were set off on foot. We spent the first night in a quarry then marched further. As we were crossing a village called Loretto we were attacked by the SS. Many prisoners were killed and even more got beaten up so bad that they suffered serious injuries. 
After a long march we arrived in Mauthausen. Our sufferings continued there. A lot of people were squeezed into such a small place. We could not wash ourselves, therefore lice were numerous. I spent two weeks there and I was taken further. The march took three days and it was the worst possible. We had to walk hungry and thirsty and those who lacked the strength to do so were executed. Günskirchen was virtually a huge mass grave. Corpses were lying in the dirt inside and outside the barracks. No one worked except those who were volunteering or assigned to carry the dead. There were some who undertook this dreadful task to get a little more soup. Hunger was so immense that people simply walked and collapsed. 
After the liberation we were taken to Hörsching and were quite well off.  After two months this camp was evacuated and we were transported home.