The persons in question have given us the following information:

We lived with our parents in Beregszász. My father was a butcher. We had a hard life; we 
were very poor.

When Germans came into Hungary, they obliged Jews to wear yellow stars. But we could not 
wear this mark for long in the streets of Beregszász, because soon they drove us into the 
ghetto, that is, the Beregszász brick factory. Germans and Hungarians would show up 
there and beat us up. They took our belongings, but they searched us once more before we 
were entrained.

This happened on the 28th of May. There were 51 people in a freight car. This transport was a 
transport of the sick, that is why there were relatively few of us. Water was in a barrel, but it 
was warm and dirty, in other words undrinkable. We had whatever food we took with us.

On 30 May we arrived in Birkenau. After getting off the cars we were immediately separated 
from our parents. We have not heard of them since. We were taken to the disinfecting 
building, where they cut our hair off, depilated the whole of our bodies and took away our 
clothes. We got some rags in exchange and went to Camp C in that rags.

In camp C we had a very bad time, we were always beaten and we also starved. There were 
several roll calls a day. We had no blankets, while we were cold and wet. It rained so much 
into the block that it felt as if we were in the open.

Once we were going to get into a transport, we were disinfected, but all of a sudden they got 
the order that we had to stay. Rumour had it that we would be taken to gas chamber, but we 
only got into Camp D. There we had to take off all our clothes and even our shoes were taken 
away. We were standing naked there for hours, thinking we would be sent to gas chamber. 2-3 
hours later, they gave us some clothes and led us to a block, where there was neither water nor 
toilet. We were barefoot for five days, while it was very cold. Nevertheless, one day we got 
the order to leave. Another disinfection, and we were entrained on the 19th of August.

We travelled for two days in freight cars. We got some water and bread, but we were so 
desperate, we could hardly eat. We were horribly dirty.

We arrived in Bolzenburg. There were 400 people in that camp. We arrived in the evening 
and next morning we already went to the aeroplane factory to work. It was a very difficult job. 
We worked 12 hours a day, in two shifts at night and day. We starved a lot and were very 
often beaten up. SS women and men beat us, but women were much worse than men. If they 
caught someone at stealing something – raw potatoes for example – everybody got 25 blows 
with a club. Five of us died.

When we did nightshift, we arrived home at 6 pm and had to start scrubbing the barrack with 
ice-cold water, so our hands froze to the floor. We could go to bed at around half past nine, if 
we were lucky we could sleep until 3 am, if not, they woke us up already at 12 or 1 am to 
make us collect leaves covered by snow in the courtyard. We were not allowed to do it with a 
stick or something like that, we could only use our hands.

On Sundays we had a day off. On these days we had to dig a hole in the courtyard and 
see how deep it was. It was very difficult, because the ground was frozen hard. Next Sunday 
we would have to bury the hole. All this was aimed at not letting us any rest at all.

In the factory we lamented to the masters that we could not do it any more and did not want to 
work. We sabotaged work in whatever ways we could. We broke the drills, presses, and 
everything that could appear to have happened by accident.

We got no clothes, our underwear had to be washed all the time, but we only had cold water 
and no soap. We had to be clean. We had no lice. We were expected to be clean, but you got 
slaps for washing yourself, and if we did not wash they would beat us up for that. If our 
clothes were not clean, we got slapped in the face, but we could only wash them standing in 
underwear and it was awfully cold.

We were not allowed to work in coats. We lived in cold barracks. Our daily food was one 
fifth of a loaf of bread and water, in the beginning twice a day, later only once.

Four weeks before the liberation a better camp commander came. It is thanks to him that 
many of us survived. He helped us go to the meadow to steal potatoes for example, which 
meant a lot to us, poor, hungry people. One day, however, some armed men wanted to shoot 
us because we had stolen the potatoes from their meadow, but the commander saved us. 
Mostly because he knew that they lost the war and he wanted to save himself.

The camp was evacuated on the 28th of April. We were walking for 4 days until we met the 
Americans in Ludwigslust.

Americans handed us over to the Russians. In Fürstenberg we applied for a place in a Czech 
transport and came to Budapest.

We want to emigrate to Palestine.