The person in question has given us the following information: 

Our travel from the Ungvár ghetto to Auschwitz was terrible. We were not given food or water, but I had a bottle of tea for my poor, sick father. We could carry 50 kilograms of clothing and food for two to three weeks. My poor father was beaten up because he could not walk. There were 89 of us in a cattle car. My father died in the car before our arrival in Auschwitz; he was 81. After arriving in Auschwitz we did not work. We had to get up at dawn; we were given coffee in a 7-9-litre pot and we had to distribute it. Those who had spoons could eat while the others were waiting. We were given half a litre of soup a day, one-eighth of a loaf of bread, margarine or sausage. We had to line up for roll call three hours a day. Later we were allowed to report for the so-called Esskommando where we could acquire more food. In the Esskommando we had to carry food for 3000 people every day. The treatment was terrible. We were punished for all kinds of small reasons: e.g., if our beds were not properly made then we did not get food for a day. If somebody was missing from the roll call, we had to kneel for hours. One day we were asked if we spoke German and if we wanted to work in a factory; in general what did we want to do? I signed up for working in a factory, since I thought I would be taken home to work. I was taken to Krasnow. We worked 12 hours a day in an ammunition factory. The female overseers were mean-spirited: they beat us all the time. If somebody dared to talk in line or stopped to fix her bad shoes, she was beaten in the head. Those who had food hidden on them and were caught, were beaten up so severely that they had to spend months in the hospital afterwards and generally eventually died. In the morning we got a cup of coffee, one-tenth of a loaf of bread, a little margarine and salami: that was all we got from 6 am to 6 pm. In the evening we were lined up and they started to distribute food for approximately 1000 people, which took ca. one and a half hours. We were given barley gruel, gross soup and jacket potato for supper. French prisoners worked there too; the behaved very decently and gave us apples every so often. There were selections in every two or three weeks. The weak were selected and taken the annihilation camp. Dr Mengele selected here; he came to Krasnow too. After six months we were transported to Mauthausen. After working only a day we were bombarded. The first attack killed 45 and injured 85 prisoners. After that we were not taken out to work, but we went to work to Amstetten: we carried boards and rocks. We stayed in the barracks and got pairs of warm stockings at Christmas. I wore only stockings until March and I was able to acquire shoes only then. The food was quite decent: we got barley gruel, semolina, one-third of a loaf of bread and once a week half of a loaf. However at the end we got only one-tenth of a loaf of bread and they cooked grass for us. Treatment was quite good in the beginning. The daily schedule was the following: we got up at 1 am, left for work at 2 and it was around 9 or 10 when we actually started to work. We worked to 5-6 pm and got back by 9. Every other day was free. On May 5 the Americans arrived and we were liberated.