The person in question has given us the following information: 

Shortly after the Germans invaded Hungary, when the round-up of the Uglya Jews started, I fled from home and hid in the forest around Uglya. I managed to stay in hiding for quite a while, but eventually an ethnic German (named János Kürsch) found and denounced me. Then the gendarmes arrested me and took me to the Nyíregyháza collecting camp where I spent two and a half weeks. Later I was entrained and deported to Auschwitz.  

I was there until the camp was evacuated, i.e., until January 18, 1945. I was working in my profession: as a mechanic. We stayed in a block. Everybody had his own bed. We worked 12 hours a day. In the morning we had to line up for an hour before we were let out of the camp to work.  At the working site the German capos beat us severely; they were German criminals with a triangle on their uniforms. Our lunch was a litre of inedible soup made out of dried vegetables.  We worked until 5:45 pm then we returned to the camp and lined up for roll call. After the roll call supper was distributed: tea and bread. Every so often we were taken to “do sport”. When we did badly, we were beaten. 

When the camp was evacuated because of the approaching Russians, we marched to Gross-Rosen. We marched for two days and two nights. The distance was 110 kilometres; those who could not walk were shot dead. Eventually we were put into open freight cars, 70-80 people in one. It was terribly cold and it was raining. We did not get any food for three days. Many died in the cars due to the cold and hunger. The room for us was made smaller, since the SS occupied half of the cars for themselves. 

After getting off the cars we were taken to the bath. Our clothes were taken away and we were given summer clothes in exchange.  

We spent four weeks there. Our breakfast was one litre of soup at 2 pm. Lunch was distributed at 2 am; 30 decagrams of bread without Zulag were given at 9 pm. There were three roll calls a day. At night, when food was distributed, we were kicked out into the dark and cold night and we had to spend hours outdoors. 

One thousand and two hundred people were lying on the ground of the block without straw and blankets. There were ca. 30-40 deaths a day. People were dying because of the beating and hunger.  We could not wash ourselves, only outdoors in the terrible cold, but even this was allowed only once every two weeks. Naturally we were overcome with lice. 

As the frontline was approaching, the camp was evacuated and we were set off on foot. We marched for three days. We had no food, since everybody ate the entire rations we were given for the trip.  After three days we were put into open freight cars and travelled for another three days. 

We arrived in Flossenbürg. We were taken to the bath; our clothes were taken away again and they gave another set of summer clothes. All of us were extremely weak by then; people were dying off like flies.  Three hundred died in the bath. The bath masters were beating us. 

In the morning we were taken to the quarantine where we got some coffee and lunch at noon.  We were beaten when we lined up for food and also at the roll calls in the evening. As we stepped out of the block, they were standing at the door and started to beat us. We spent 10 days there.  

In the camp where we were sent, we lined up from 5 to 9 am and then we got some coffee. This was the routine for two weeks then we were selected for a transport and taken to Regensburg. 

In Regensburg we performed railroad work for four weeks. In the first two weeks we were given half a litre of water without salt and fat of course. In addition they gave us 20 decagrams of bread. We worked for 12 hours and we had to walk six kilometres to the working place. In the beginning there were 400 of us, but in two weeks 40 died and 60 became seriously sick. Those with a 39-degree Celsius fever went to work in the morning and were carried back dead in the evening. Only those who were certainly going to die could stay home. There were two roll calls a day. We were sleeping on the ground without shirts on. We had no bathing possibility; we were teeming with lice. After two weeks we were all so weak that the Red Cross gave us 20 decagrams of bread. We worked there another two weeks. 

The frontline was getting closer and closer, so we started to move back. We walked for 10 days. We got 15 decagrams of bread a day and if there was no bread, then four pieces of boiled tomatoes. This was our daily ration; we were extremely weak anyway and this terrible march and hunger almost finished us off. We could hardly walk when we arrived in # where the Americans liberated us. 

The Americans gave enough food for everybody. All of us fell ill with typhus, but all those who possibly could be healed were cured by the American physicians.