The person in question has given us the following information: 

In 1942 I served as a labour serviceman in Poland and I escaped. I was hiding until a sergeant recognised me. I was handed over to the Germans, who took me to the Warsaw ghetto. I was taken to Auschwitz on August 7. As a mechanic, I was assigned to the service station and I was working there until January 11, 1943. 

Later I was transferred to Gusen 2. There we worked in a Messerschmidt factory. We were treated very badly. Ten to fifteen SS men guarded us and they kicked us every time they passed by. We were also beaten a lot. Almost all of them had a big German Shepherd and just for the fun of it they set the dogs on us. Those who the dogs were set upon got torn apart in five minutes. Food was quite good. There were many civilian workers and we ate in their kitchen. Thus we could cope with the work. We had to travel two hours a day to the working place. 

From here we were taken to Mauthausen on foot. There we broke stones, but soon 2000 people (including me) were dragged away from there to Schachendorf to dig anti-tank ditches. We marched 21 days. During this time food was distributed nine times: three decilitres of turnip soup and 10 decagrams of bread. We spent one and a half months is Schachendorf. One morning we were alarmed: the Russians were approaching. A transport of 1200 was set off for Mauthausen. It took another 21 days to get there. We were terribly hungry; many died on the way, therefore only 790 people arrived. 

In Mauthausen we were treated very badly. The sergeant had a club that was as thick as an arm. Those he did not like he called at himself and ordered them to turn around, then he shot them in the nape of the neck. He laughed and walked away. 

Our rations were terrible; we were hungry and broke stones with empty stomachs until 17,000 of us were marched off to Günskirchen.  

Many died on the way: a part of them died from hunger, another part was shot down, as they were unable to walk. 

There were 12 barracks in Günskirchen. One barrack was built for 800 persons, but 1600 -1800 prisoners were accommodated there. It was sleeting the whole week; there was ankle-high mud even in the barracks.  We arrived there on April 26 and on May 4 the Americans arrived. 

I drove the SS commander’s car. One morning we were hit by heavy machine gun fire; we hoisted the white flag. Two physicians who spoke English and me driving the car went out of the camp to receive the Americans with the SS captain. We came under heavy fire on the road, so we lay into the gutter and waved the white flag.  The Americans told us where the guards had to go. Fully armed, the guards left and at 5 o’ clock the Americans circled them. They had to put down their weapons; the Americans broke them to pieces, put them onto a pyre and burned them. Later the SS guards were taken to Lambach.

Some of us travelled to Wells on an American truck. On the way they gave us plenty of food and we ate in a restaurant that night. In the morning we went to the mayor’s office and received a travelling certificate.