The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived with my parents in Beregardó. After the Germans invaded the country gendarmes 
kept molesting us. They took away everything we had and if they expected more from 
someone than what they received they would badly beat them up. By the end we found 
ourselves completely robbed. At the end of April they took us into the ghetto of Beregszász. 
It was very bad in the ghetto, we were pretty crammed, and we slept on the attics and in the 
courtyards. In the end we got also lice. Gendarmes and the SS were rude and wicked.

Around the 20th of May, they entrained us, putting 75-80 people in each freight car. 
Everyone got a kilo of bread and each carload of people shared a bucket of water. 
Hungarian gendarmes escorted us till Kassa, and SS soldiers escorted us from there on. We 
travelled in sealed freight cars, the windows had gratings, but you could not even look out 
through the grating because they would immediately start shooting. In Kassa they opened 
the cars and we got water from labour servicemen. We arrived in Auschwitz in three days.

At the station of Auschwitz Dr Mengele did the selections. I got separated from my parents 
and siblings and was sent to the right side. They took us to the bath, cut our hair off, gave 
me cheap clothes and a bad pair of shoes, and put me in Camp C. I stayed here for 3 
months. We did not have to work, but had to stand during roll calls. Reveille was at 3 am, it 
was still very dark, the stars were shining, and it was cold, and we stood there for hours, we 
were very cold, and if the number they counted was not right we had to kneel down, and we 
remained on our knees for hours, and the roll call continued in the afternoon till 7 pm. Food 
was scarce and bad, so we starved a lot. There were continuous selections in the camp. 
Some were selected because they were thin, others because they were fat. Often, you 
only needed a little rash and were claimed to have mange. These people had to form 
separate lines, and were taken away, as far as I know, to the crematorium, because we have 
not seen them ever since. During selections several people slipped to the other side. 

At the end of August, they took us from Auschwitz to Liebenstadt, where we worked for an 
ammunition plant. We worked 12 hours a day and the quantity of work was set for every 
day. The Lagerführer was a very wicked person. When we got back home at 4.30 pm, we 
had to start cleaning the camp until 7 pm. A lot of beating and little food: that was what we 
got. We were starving. We worked there till the end of March when they took us into the 
camp of Bergen-Belsen.

It was even worse in Bergen-Belsen. We spent there three weeks before liberation, but 
these three weeks were the most horrible. A great number of people were crammed into a 
little camp full of lice. We were so full of lice that we collected handfuls of lice on our 
bodies. Almost all of us got typhus fever. Mortality grew day by day. We had to walk 
over cadavers if we wanted to go out of the barrack. We did not see bread for three 
weeks at all. For an entire day we had half a litre of soup, which was only water.

On the 15th of April 1945, the English liberated us. Their first gesture was to open the food 
stores for all those starving people. They were distributing cans and chocolate. They made 
Germans bury all those corpses, since there were heaps of cadavers in each camp. We 
stayed there another two weeks before they took us to Bergen, where I stayed another four 
weeks, and started off home from Cell by car and carried on later by train.