The person in question has given us the following information:

I was living in Budapest, in 19 Király Street. On November 20, 1944 Arrow Cross men and policemen appeared in the building and rounded up men between the ages of 16 and 60. This is how I was dragged away from my home to the Óbuda brick factory. I spent a day there, then I was set off to Hegyeshalom via Pilisvörösvár. On the way we did not get anything to eat, we ate what we had brought with us from home.  We spent the nights in the cold, rainy weather outdoors. We were taken to Nagycenk via Hegyeshalom. There we were assigned to dig trenches. We worked in the severe December cold under the supervision of Arrow Cross and Wehrmacht soldiers. They made us work with their guns ready to shoot and pointed at us. Our rations were 30 decagrams of bread and half a litre of soup. We were hungry and cold. When any of us stepped out of line when marching home from work, he was shot. The sick were not given food, they were let lying there in the snow. We were sleeping in an open barn. We were working there for six weeks. Thirty to forty people died every day. The day before we left, the number of the dead was 120. All Arrow Cross guards were from Nagycenk. 

At the beginning of February we were entrained and deported to Mauthausen. There were 70 of us in one cattle car. For two days we did not get anything to eat, after two days they gave us bread and margarine. We did not get water, though. We ate snow the whole way. We travelled for two weeks; when we disembarked, there were 20 dead in our cattle car.  By the time we got to Mauthausen, I grew so weak that I was absolutely incapable of working. 

In Mauthausen we were taken into a camp. There were plenty of labour servicemen in the camp already. Six prisoners were lying in a bunk-bed, so I could find a place only on the cold ground. The SS men were beating us a lot and we were very hungry. A lot of people died. 

By the time the Americans liberated us after a short stay in Mauthausen, I was extremely weak, therefore I was taken to hospital and I was able to get back to my feet again only after three weeks of careful attending.  

The Americans looked after my transfer to home as well. I was travelling home via Brno partly by car and partly by train.