The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was taken to Bor, Serbia from Beregkövesd as a labour serviceman in 1943. I worked there for 18 months. We were performing heavy mine work, the food was scarce, we were beaten. One day during roll call they announced that those who arrived a long time ago would go home on foot. We were very happy. Those who were to stay there were crying when we left.    We marched through Serbia until we reached Baja. We did not get anything to eat on the way, we suffered a lot and we were very hungry. Those incapable of walking were shot by the SS men. We kept on walking from Baja to Szentkirályszabadja, the Austrian border.

We arrived in Herzburg in November 1944. There we were taken to a labour camp. We were digging a tunnel. It was very had work. We had been working here only for a little while, when many collapsed due to many weeks of marching, beating and hunger. These were shot by the SS. Somehow I managed to work, but after three weeks I collapsed too. I was fighting complete exhaustion, moreover my feet were frostbitten. I was so weak that I was unable to stand on my feet for three weeks. I was taken to hospital. My situation was tolerable there. I was lying sick for three months.  From here all of us were taken to Dachau, the healthy by train, the sick – me as well – by train. Seventy sick prisoners were taken into a cattle car: it was so crowded that by the time we arrived in Dachau, there were 12 dead in our cattle car. 

We spent five days in Dachau; there were two- to three-hour roll calls, they did not care if somebody was sick, and the ill had to report for roll call too. Once in a while we were able to get a blanket and wrap it around ourselves. 

From Dachau we went to Seinfeld, 70 in a cattle car again. When we got off, we walked five kilometres that day, then we were taken back to Seinfeld. We were dragged up and down; I was seriously sick, I do not even know how I managed to survive. We spent there hardly a day, then we were dragged away because of the American approach to Mittenwald. We went to sleep on the day we arrived and by the time we woke up, the German guards were gone. We went into the town and got some food from the German population. Next day the Americans arrived. 

We, who were still alive, were so sick and weak that all of us had to be taken to hospital and it took us five weeks to recover.  When leaving the hospital, we were taken by the Americans to Pilsen by car; there the Russians took over and they looked after our transporting home.