The person in question has given us the following information:

We were in ghetto in Mátészalka. Our father was not with us, since we had been all deported 
into Poland already in 1941; we managed to get back but we have not seen our father 
since then. Now, the five of us, brothers and sisters, set off together with our mother.
      
There were 75 of us crammed into a freight car. We arrived at Auschwitz after three days 
travel. We had to leave our entire luggage on the train. They separated me from my mother 
and four brothers and sisters, and I already know what happened to them. They also 
took the path from where there was no way back. They went directly into gas chamber and 
went up in smoke. I had to carry on. We got into a building for the baths where they seized 
the belongings we still had. They bathed us, gave us prisoners’ clothes, cut our hair off and 
drove us to our block. I spent six terrible days in Auschwitz before they entrained us – 100 of 
us in a car.

We arrived in Buchenwald, and got some food on arrival. It was quite tolerable here. We lived 
in tents although we did not have a place for sleeping; we slept sitting. During the two weeks 
we stayed here we did not work at all. We were put on trains again, 85 of us in a freight car, 
and travelled to Regensdorf-Zeitz. We worked in a factory doing a very difficult job, and got 
very little to eat. The camp was horribly filthy. During the year we stayed there we got clean 
shirts only twice and a piece of underwear once. Naturally, we were full of lice, and fell also 
ill by the end.

Rations were one fifth of a loaf of bread weighing 1.2 kilos and a litre of so-called soup in the 
evening. If we got sick we got only one eighth of a loaf of bread. We hardly had energy to 
walk. When the English approached us they put us on train but the train could not proceed as 
the English had already occupied the rails. So they made these broken, enfeebled group of 
people get off the train, and we started our unthinkably horrible walk. The SS beat us and 
rushed us on the way. They were awfully cruel with us. My comrades supported me. Finally, 
we arrived in Theresienstadt where I lay for three days unconsciously; I do not even know 
how we got liberated.