The person in question has given us the following information:

When we arrived in Auschwitz I was separated from my mother and my brother still at the train 
station. We were taken to the bath and there we had to undress completely. They took away all our 
clothes and cut our hair, then they gave us a dirty dress and a pair of shoes, which was paired off in 
a way that both shoes would have fit on my right foot. Then they took us in a block where we lay 
down on bare planks. We did not get anything to eat that day. There were Zählappells when we 
were standing for about 6 hours twice a day. They punished us frequently. For example, if they 
counted us and the number was not correct, which was not our fault, we had to kneel all day 
long as punishment, and besides everybody was beaten with a whip.  When we were selected, 
we had no idea about what was going to happen with our relatives. We comforted each other, 
saying that we would be taken to work, while they would also be placed in the camp and they would 
take care of the little children. Meanwhile they made us believe that we would meet at the end of 
the week, but unfortunately that never happened. Later we spoke to Polish Christian men, who told 
us that 7 crematoriums were working there in Auschwitz and those who had been separated from us 
had been taken to the gas. We could not think of those things at all, because they put bromide in our 
food; that made us sleep all day long and we forgot everything. I did not even know I had a mother. 
We lived like that for 3 months. We did not have to work, but they tortured us all the more. One 
day they started to select stronger girls saying that they would be taken to work, while those they 
found weaker were taken to the gas. The Polish men let us know about it, despite the fact that 
talking about it was strictly prohibited for them.                                                                                                                                                                                  
I was taken to the transport of labourers, but we went to see a physician, and as I was not found 
strong enough I had to go to the group of weak girls. I escaped from there. I went to another camp 
and there I was selected again. I managed to join a small group there and with them I marched to 
Neusalz near Breslau. There I worked in a yarn factory. We did much better there: we worked, we 
received food and we could wash. Strict punishments occurred there too. For example if somebody 
did not work well, if she was not clean enough or a button was torn off her clothes, either her hair 
was cut or she had to stand at attention outdoors in the cold winter weather for the whole night. 
I worked there for 6 months. Towards the end of February the enemy was approaching and we had 
to flee from there. We received an order and we set off on foot. We marched 25-30 kilometres a day 
and we were given no more than 2 pieces of boiled potatoes and sometimes a little bread. This was 
going on for 6 weeks. We starved a lot on the way and we became terribly infested with lice. When 
the night fell we had rest in terrible lodgings. Most of the time we slept in open stables in the 
coldest weather. Many of us got frost and died. That is how we arrived in Flossenburg. There we 
were taken to a concentration camp, they disinfected us and we had a week of rest. Then, they 
entrained us and we spent 8 days in a cattle car. For three days we got some bread, but on the 
following 5 days we got nothing to eat, moreover we did not get any water either. 70 people were 
there in a cattle car and about 30-40 people got off alive. We were travelling together with the dead 
during the whole journey and so we arrived in Bergen-Belsen. Then 1,000 people were 
accommodated in a block as we were, full of lice. The block was so crowded that we had no place 
even to sit down. We received half a litre of turnip soup once a day and they distributed 1 kilo of 
bread for 12 people once a week. We were lining up for 3-4 hours at the Zählappell every morning.
We were beaten very often and we got the most serious punishment for the smallest trifle. For 
example, we were very hungry and we stole some turnips to somewhat appease our hunger. If 
somebody was caught at such a theft, a sack of turnips was tied to her back, she had to hold two 
turnips in her hands and one in her teeth, and she had to kneel like that, with lifted arms according 
to how it was inflicted on her. 
Some of us had to atone throughout the night, or we had to stand all day long and we were also 
given a sound beating. A capo was order to stand beside those; she beat them with a whip out of her 
individual initiative. A large number of people died there every day. The dead were not taken away, 
but they were left lying there in the courtyard of the camp by the thousand. It so happened that a 
typhus fever epidemic broke out and an even larger number of people died. 
When they got wind that the English were approaching, a number of the SS people escaped, while 
the rest of them, who did not manage to escape put on white armbands which meant that they 
surrendered. One hour before the English occupied Bergen-Belsen, the sentry was taken over 
by the Hungarian army. Since we were terribly starving we began to pilfer the turnips left in 
the courtyard. Then a Hungarian captain gave the order that if any of us were to approach 
the turnips she should be shot dead. It so happened that in the hour of the liberation 27 girls 
were shot dead by Hungarian soldiers. The English came in and they caught the Hungarian 
captain together with the soldiers. One week before the English arrival, the Germans did not burn 
the dead any longer, but they made us dig up graves to bury them. Since there was not enough time 
anymore, there were thousands of dead people lying there unburied when the English arrived. So, 
the English made the SS do that job. The English treated the German women just like the SS had 
treated us in Auschwitz. We were liberated by the English on the day they came in.