The person in question has given us the following information: 
 
On September 25, 1944 I was in a labour camp in Kecskemét. Due to the Russian approach the company was disbanded. I came to Budapest. On October 16 my former boss, baker Vilmos Faragó hid me in his bakery. Unfortunately the wife of the janitor learned about this and when the Jewish men were rounded up on the 18th, she denounced me and therefore I had to go too. Her name is Mrs. János Kurtács. 
We were digging trenches in Ferihegy and in Pécel. Later the Arrow Cross drove us to Budafok then Kápolnásnyék. They were constantly beating us. We were brought to Budapest to the Tattersaal. At the end of November we were entrained; we were put into so-called French cars. We were escorted by military gendarmes, but the commander was an SS captain. We broke a hole in the side of the car, since it was pitch-dark inside. Seventy-five to eighty men and women languished for 11 days without any food or water. As we approached Felsőgalla, I turned a wheel inside and the door opened up. I jumped out to the darkness with four other prisoners and lay on the ground waiting for the train to pass. We sneaked out from the station and met labour servicemen, who provided us with food and suggested that we should go to Tata and report there at the sergeant of the meat processing plant; he would employ us.  This is exactly what happened. For a while we were well off, but later they rounded us up, entrained us and set us off for Sopron. The travel took eight days. For a short while I was working at an airfield then we were handed over to the SS who took us to St. Martin. After a few nights there we marched to Linz in the cold rain, starving. After resting here for a few hours we went to Mauthausen. The food supply was terrible during the march: a minimal amount of bread every other day, once in a while some margarine, lukewarm coffee and turnip soup. I was sleeping on the ground; we loaded corpses onto a cart. There were many dead bodies all around. The camp population consisted of 75,000 prisoners, all whose faces reflected terrible suffering. After spending six weeks there, we were taken to a forest next to Wels. There were 12,000 prisoners here; we were sleeping outdoors in the mud, since the tents were overcrowded. Many died here. The Americans liberated us here.