The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on June 10, 1942 in recruiting centre no. 72, company no. 108/53 in Munkács. Three weeks later they took me to Kerepecs. After another three weeks I was entrained and taken to Ghomel.
The journey in locked up freight cars, without any food or water lasted 10 days. We stayed for three days in a forest in Ghomel and then we were set off. On the first day we walked 60 kilometres and later 40-50 kilometres per day. We were marching for seven weeks. Those who could not keep pace were beaten until they stood up again or they died. We stopped in the village of Stanovoy for the first time. We were building roads there for 10 days. We were woken up at 3 in the morning. Then we went to our workplace, which was 10 kilometres away. Terribly tired as we already had been, we started to work. Our scarce food supply was of poor quality, because our company commander stole and sold most of it.
We departed again. We covered 60 kilometres in one day to Chernohovo. The guards escorted us by a cart and they were whipping us because we could not keep pace with them. Four platoons met at Chernohovo. Three of them were taken to the front and our platoon stayed behind. We were repairing roads for six weeks. The work was very hard.
Our next station was Yesdetchnoya. It was 50 kilometres away and we had to cover that distance in one day as well. We reunited there with the other platoons that previously had been sent to the front. A lot of people died of frostbite, jaundice and weakness. I stayed there until around November 15, when we went to Bolderevka. We were building bunkers and cutting timber. All the labour servicemen grew so weak that they were ready to fall. We were terribly infested with lice. We worked outdoors and our feet and hands became frostbitten. We were hardly given anything to eat. Our numbers decreased day by day.
We started to withdraw on January 13. Wearing ragged clothes, barefoot, hungry and thirsty, we were marching for around six weeks. We arrived in Davidka in such a condition. Out of my company’s 216 members that left home in 1942, only 30 were still alive by that time. A typhus epidemic broke out and I was assigned to another company. A lieutenant called Patay was beating and torturing us. He was untouched by the fact that we were ready to fall because we had been weakened by typhus. During the first 10 days we did not even get a bite of bread. I stayed there for six weeks. About 3000 labour servicemen were taken to hospital and 70% of them perished there. We were not allowed to live in peasant houses, only in stables with the animals.
Later we went to Kiev where we were slightly better off. We got sufficient food supply and sometimes even some tobacco. We spent three months there, during which I worked in a horse disinfection building. We departed again and marched to Shkirnovitcha, then to Brodnitcha, Poland. We were doing such a hard work there that nobody could endure however strong he was. We had to carry two-three-metre-long trunks for kilometres on the slippery ground upon our shoulders. Our commander was a lieutenant called Szalay, whose nickname was “the bearded”, but he rather deserved the name “the murderer”. He found out exquisite tortures for us. For example he ordered us to turn somersaults and to run uphill and downhill when we arrived home very tired in the evening.
Four weeks later we started to march again. We went to Byala Podlaska and then to Brest-Litovsk. We did relatively fine there, but we could see the Germans executing Polish Jewish women and children as well as Aryans who were suspected to be partisans. They killed them in groups of 70-80.
We went to Riki where I worked in the food storage for two months. Then I was entrained and taken back to Hungary. It happened in October 1944. We were taken to Kecskemét where we stayed for three weeks. We noticed that there were no Jews any more in the cities and villages of the countryside, because all of them had been taken to Germany. We were taken further to Kápolnásnyék and then we were withdrawing all the time. Our company dispersed and everyone went in different directions. I went to Alcsút and hid in the house of a peasant family.
I spent ten months there before the Russians marched in. They took me into a prisoner camp in Baja where I had a very good time. I have been released because of my heart and liver disease. I caught those while being a labour serviceman.
I want to go home and work again. I also want to cherish the hope that I will see my wife and three little children again, who were dragged away to Auschwitz while I was working like an animal in Russia and Poland and was nursing the hope I could save their lives with my work.