The person in question has given us the following information:

We were taken into the Mohács ghetto from Pécsvárad on May 15 of last year. The decree was issued by the sub-prefect. The Gentile population was generally sympathetic to us when the long column was walking towards the railway station. (Approximately 30 Jewish families lived in my hometown, chiefly merchants and craftsmen, all under quite normal financial circumstances.) We could carry as much luggage and food as we wanted. 

I was responsible for the entrainment; the gendarmes showed up at the railway two hours before the departure and they behaved well. We left at 9 am and by 5 pm we were in Mohács.

There were ca. 500-600 of us in the Mohács ghetto, which comprised of two streets: in one part there was the synagogue and the school, the other part was on the banks of the Danube. In the beginning the ghetto was not surrounded by a fence, but later is was enclosed. The ghetto was supervised by the Jewish police, which was controlled by the Hungarian state police. Food was distributed at soup kitchens. There was no work for us; the women had the clean up the lodging of the German soldiers every morning. 

The members of the Jewish Council were as follows:  Ödön Wolf, N. Stern, Chief Rabbi Dr Flesch and others, but unfortunately I do not remember their names. The Council did its utmost to ease the terrible situation of the Jews somehow.


I spent only nine days in the ghetto, then I was called up for labour service to the Szekszárd-based labour service company no. 104/303. I worked there for six months. Ninety of us worked at the railroad: we offloaded freight trains under the supervision of the Szekszárd guard unit. We cannot really complain about them, only the company commander (a certain Fischer) and Second Lieutenant Barcsi had Arrow Cross sympathies and thus treated us very strictly. 

Both the accommodation and the food supply were decent. 

From Szekszárd I was taken to Pápa where we worked night and day loading the freight train, since the frontline was very close and warehouses were emptied very quickly. 

On the first day of Christmas I was assigned to railroad construction. We covered 70 kilometres in two days and stayed in a village seven kilometres from Szombathely. We cleaned forests and built barracks from the wood we had cut. We were surrounded by officers with massive Arrow Cross sympathies, since one of the departments of the Ministry of Defence was settled here. It happened several times that we were cursed at on the streets. 

I worked for three months here and then we were transferred to the outskirts of Szt. Gotthárd on March 27, 1945. We were set off on foot on the road leading to Graz. This was very dangerous, since we had to march with our yellow armbands on and the German army was retreating on the very same road. 

On March 30 we turned off the road and camped on a clearing. At dawn of March 31 the Russian troops arrived and we were captured together with our guards. 

We were taken to Ságod on foot and after three days to Székesfehérvár. On April 19 we were entrained and taken to Foksany, a POW camp in Romania. Half of the company stayed there as sick; I do not know what happened to them. I belonged to the other half: 45 fellows and I were entrained again. On May 16 we arrived in Rustaval in the Caucasus, 30 kilometres from Tbilisi. It was POW camp no 180/3 with ca. 6000 people; only 98 were Jewish, the others were Aryans: approximately 4000 Hungarians and other prisoners from various nations. 

In the camp we were accommodated in brick and wooden barracks. Our situation and food supply was satisfactory. We worked at a construction site, the weak performed agricultural work accompanied by very decent treatment. We worked for 10 hours a day and we could bathe once every 10 days. The mortality rate was very low, not more than 20 dead a month. 

I was in captivity for three months and I was released as a convalescent with 19 fellows of mine on August 18. The others stayed; supposedly they will come home soon. 

I arrived in Budapest through Russia and Romania. On the way home people provided us with the best food.