The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was hiding in Kispest with Christian documents, but at a tram stop someone recognised me, halted the tram and I was arrested. I was taken to the detention house and from there to the internment camp in Sárvár.
I was taken to Auschwitz on June 26. There I was bathed, my hair was cut, and my clothes were taken away. I got ragged clothes in return, but no underwear. I was sent to the camp C where I met my sister’s 16-year-old daughter, with whom I stayed together from that time on. After two weeks they set us off for Frankfurt-am-Main.
We were travelling for four days, during which the doors of the freight car were not opened at all. It was terribly hot and we could hardly breathe. They did not give us water at all. Only young girls were in the car, therefore we stripped to the skin. We were crammed together so close that we almost went mad due to the touch of the bodies. I made a small hole in the floor of the car in order to get some air. I fainted twice.
When we arrived in Frankfurt, we did not have shoes on, and the ground was so hot that a few young girls died before we reached the forest. The camp was in a forest. I was stripped to the waist, because I used my shirt to wrap the bread up. We were in groups of 100. They gave us a little coffee. We stormed the cauldron, so we could hardly have any, and more was poured on the ground than we could drink. At night we could not sleep because of the hunger and thirst. I climbed out of the window and I saw a woman carrying a bucket of water. I begged her to give me a little. She gave me a bowl filled with water and I handed it in through the window, so that some of us could drink from it.
We were constructing an airfield and we were cutting huge trees. It was hardly endurable: the girls were just dying off like flies. Everyone had sore feet. The evenings were very cold and later the days were cold too, of course. We did not have any warm clothes; we had hardly any clothes, for that matter. We stuffed our clothes with straw, which injured our skin. We were starving so terribly that we could not even sleep at night, even though we were extremely tired. Even the hair of the 20-year-old girls turned grey. It was hailing. Little 12-13-year-old girls were crying, because they were barefoot and cold. They begged the SS to allow them to stand under a tree. However, the SS men beat them as a response and reported the commander that we were complaining. Hearing that, the latter took us down into the bunker where we were beaten up and we had to spend 24 hours there without any food.
We did not have a single hour of rest, not even on Sundays or on holidays. Illness was only accepted if the person collapsed, but if she felt slightly better, she was thrown out of the infirmary.
From there we were taken to Ravensbrück. Thousands of us stayed in a tent. The toilet was inside the tent as well. Lunch was distributed at 2 am, but it happened amid such a fight that as we rushed for the kettles, we overturned them. They distributed coats; these were snapped up in the same turmoil. I was such a bedlam; SS soldiers came in, but even they could not restore order.
The dirt of the toilet flew underneath us, therefore we were lying on the wet stone floor without any straw for two weeks. Many of us got ill, because we were barefoot and wore thin clothes. Out of the 1700 people no more than 400 survived. There were a lot of dead around us. As I went out to the toilet at night, I stumbled upon motionless bodies and I knew they were dead.
We were working in a factory and we were starving very much. One spoonful of meal and a little bread was all our food, but even these small portions were gradually decreased.
When we got the first care packages from the Red Cross, naturally we were very happy and kept waiting for the next packages.
One night, right after we fell asleep, we heard horrible yelling. They ordered us to dress up immediately, to take two blankets and to line up. There was a panic, mothers could not find their children and sisters each other in the dark, but finally somehow we lined up. They did not even count us; they only set us off in the dark. It made us happy, because it meant that the front was approaching.
We arrived in another camp. The blocks had been almost emptied there, because the prisoners were forced to go to another camp. We were taken into a block where the typhus patients used to be. We lied on dirty and ragged straw mattresses. We had a terrible night, because there were no doors or windows and we were very cold. Some of us went to the inner block and occupied a bed. The following day there was a horrible fight for the sleeping places. We had already nestled in when the female block leader told us that her group had to go into the other barrack. Therefore we had to leave the place. I got acquainted with a girl from Szatmár, who was a room supervisor. She gave us some soup, but it was so bad that we could not eat it. The next morning, following the roll call, we were taken to work.
We had to unload coal from a ship. Our guards were Polish and German women, who beat us as severely as they could. A Jewish girl from Budapest climbed up a hill and brought back some potatoes in a small bag. One of the Polish women noticed her; they grabbed her and beat her to a pulp, and they distributed the potatoes among themselves.
One morning at the roll call they told us that we would be handed over to the Red Cross. Our numbers were removed and we were entrained. We were staying in the cars for two days thirsty and hungry, without water or toilet. One of the girls was shouting at them to give us water, because, as she said, we would die anyway. A female SS overseer dragged her and beat her to death.
Then we got some help. We found some potatoes and flour in a train and we started to cook a meal happily. However, we could not finish it, because a lot of female overseers arrived. Panic set in and everyone was shouting horribly. We lined up and then the parcels from the Red Cross were distributed, one each for two people. They set us off with those provisions. We reached a forest six kilometres away; here we had to have a rest, because it was already dark. We tried to warm up each other, because we were very cold. We had very little sleep, and then we were lined up again and we had to go on. I felt extremely weak and unable of marching on, so I asked my little niece to come with me and hide in the forest.
We were staying in the forest, between the front lines, for three days. They were shooting from all sides. We were so afraid that we hid under a wagon. On the third day the Russians came and liberated us.