The person in question has given us the following information:

I was working in the Galvanochemia paint and dye factory in Pestszenterzsébet as a military worker. On December 1, 1944 the Arrow Cross invaded the factory and took away the Jews. My wife was a Christian and everybody thought that I was an Aryan too, only my labour service commander, Warrant Officer Karakas knew that I was Jewish and he was quick to tell this to the Arrow Cross. Therefore I was dragged away too.  

We were escorted to the Teleki Square where we were deprived of all of our belongings. We had to work on the Újpest Embankment for four days: we were loading barges. Later we were entrained at the Józsefváros railway station. The cattle cars were sealed and we travelled for six days without any food or drink. The gendarmes blackmailed us on the way: they were giving a bucket of water for 200-300 pengős. I had a coat and I exchanged it for a small piece of bread and a little piece of salted pork. I lived on this for six days. 

After six days we arrived in Ács where the doors were opened. Three dirty pieces of potatoes and 10 pieces of carrots were thrown into the cattle car for 65 prisoners. At Hegyeshalom we were handed over to the Germans and this is where we got hot meal for the first time. We travelled an additional four days by train. 

On the 14th we arrived in Bergen-Belsen where all 500 of us were taken to the "special camp". After arrival we were completely robbed, then we were taken to a wooden barrack full of lice. People were suffering from diarrhoea and 30-40 died a day. Two prisoners were sleeping on a 70-centimetre-wide bunk. Our food supply consisted of turnip soup, continuously decreasing portions of bread and three decagrams of margarine twice a week. The SS guards constantly beat and tortured us with roll calls for two to three hours every day. 

We were entrained and set off for Theresienstadt on April 7. Seventy-three of us were put into one cattle car; four prisoners died on the way. We were escorted by Wehrmacht men.

Sixteen kilometres from Magdeburg, near Fahrsleben, the Americans circled us and on April 13 the 9th US Army liberated us. They took us to Hillersleben where we were taken a good care of.