The person in question has given us the following information:

I was drafted for the labour service company 4/I in Marcali, following a call-up order in 1942. I 
was taken to Russia through Galánta on 16th November.

They took us to Chernigov. From there we went to chop wood in a forest marching 16 kilometres 
there and back every day. We were very cold and we starved much. When we went to work, we 
received some bread and a spoonful of fruit jam. We had dinner when we got back in the evening, 
being dead tired of the hard work and of the marching. They always gave us different meals of 
boiled legumes for dinner. One time the SS men wanted to execute the whole company as 
unreliable people, but our commander, Béla Horváth intervened and prevented us from it. Our 
commander was a very strange man. Sometimes he protected us, at other times he gave us the most 
serious punishment. Whom he did not like, he beat up with a whip.

In 1943 we received a new commander in the person of Lieutenant Pál Péter. In the first time he 
was very good to us, but later he changed under the influence of other commanders. He never hurt 
anybody himself later either, but he made the company sergeant major beat us with a stick for the 
smallest deviation from the rules. Luckily he was a more tender-hearted man and he did his best to 
release us from the punishments.

In November 1944 we were set off towards Hungary and on 19th December we were handed over 
to the SS, who entrained us and after a nine-day long journey took us to Flossenburg. They formed 
transports in Flossenburg and took them forward. I was put in a transport of 700 people and was 
taken to Harzburg, 24 kilometres from Nürnberg, on 3rd January. Russian and Greek prisoners 
were also taken there at the same time. We got on the train at noon and arrived already at night.

After five days of rest we were assigned to do mine-work in Harzburg. We were building an 
underground ammunition factory, and I was assigned to handle a machine drill. We did quite well 
in the mine, life in the camp was much worse than that. 

The lager was located right next to the train station. 6,000 people were made to live there. Two of 
us slept in one bed. We were given 500 grams of bread daily, once a week 700 grams, and black 
coffee in the morning. At noon and in the evening we received some soup. We worked 12 hours a 
day. The rations of bread became smaller and smaller in the beginning of March, and the soups at 
noon and in the evening were unsalted and full of water. The work, on the other hand, was hard; I 
lost more and more weight, until I was only 45 kilos. 
 
I understood that I had to do something or else I would collapse within 3-4 days. I intentionally 
wounded my arm at work, whereby I managed to go to the sick room on 21st March. I stayed in the 
sick room until the camp was emptied, because the frontline moved closer. They set us off towards 
Dachau on 8th April. That journey was horrible. 120 people were travelling in a small cattle car. 
We got food for the journey, but, because of our nervous exhaustion, we took the food from each 
other and trampled each other to death. We arrived in Dachau leaving many dead people behind.
 
I was taken to quarantine in Dachau. On 21st April they made every Jew line up and they wanted to 
take them to a unknown place. I registered at the doctor saying that I was sick. Apart from being 
weak, my back developed a huge festering furuncle, which was operated on in the sick room on 
23rd April. 

The American s liberated us on 29th April. I was in the Dachau hospital till 8th June. 

I stayed in Dachau until the beginning of September, when I tried to get a travel permit to go back 
to my family as soon as possible. Since I did not manage to get it, I started on my way illegally. I 
got to Brünn without any problem, but from there I could only come home by struggling for a week 
and being robbed out of all my possessions.