And she relates the following. 

Last year, in April, gendarmes came into our flats and gave us the order to start off for the 
ghetto carrying no more than 50-kilo packs. The ghetto meant the streets destined for this 
purpose. Later, they took us into a collecting ghetto, where they lodged us in attics and 
stables. Gendarmes told us to hand over all our valuables and clothes since we were going 
to be killed anyway. Five days later, they entrained us. We travelled for four days and 
nights, suffering through the journey incredibly, since there were 70-80 people crammed in 
a cattle car, and we had no access to water at all.
4 days later, we arrived in Auschwitz, where camp doctors Dr Mengele and Dr Tylo (Thilo) 
selected us. The young were sent to the left side, while elder people, and young mothers 
with their children to the right side. Selections were followed by a bath, haircut, and in 
place of our new dresses we got rags that were called clothes, in which we had no human 
form.
Our job was to carry stones, bricks, and water and to spread gravel on the ground. Ten 
weeks later we were carried by passenger train to Reichenbach, where we worked for an 
ammunition plant 12 hours a day. We lived in barracks without heating, and we were 
commanded to stay each on a separate little berth with a single cover. If they noticed 
that two people lay on the same berth, or if they found a knife or spoon on you they 
cut your hair off and gave you lashes. 
I spent 7-8 months in Reichenbach before we had to start on foot to make a 150-kilometre 
trip. For five days we got one and a half kilos of bread. We spent the nights in stables. The 
SS beat us on the way. After 5 days of walking we arrived in Parschvitz starving and 
exhausted. On the first two days we did not get anything to eat in this camp. Two days later, 
6 people could share a kilo of bread a day, and luckily we did not need to work because we 
would not have been able, being so weak and exhausted. Five days later, they put us in a 
little coal wagon, 65 people in each. It was a March with snow, ice and rain, and we 
travelled with a cover, in light clothing, for 6 days and nights going through the worst. 
Eventually, we arrived in Porta, and got off. Here again, we did not get anything to eat for 
two days. 
I worked here for two weeks in an underground mine. We went down six storeys in the 
mine. It was completely airless, and we worked 12 hours a day; one week during the night, 
the other week during the day. Every day we walked without shoes an hour to our 
workplace on a gravel road.
We got a plate of soup and eight of us shared a kilo of bread a day. As a result, we were 
starving, and most of us became totally enfeebled. We were strictly guarded all the time, 
and there were continuous roll calls. Our Kommandoführer was a sheer sadist, who went 
around with a club and beat people with no apparent reason.
Two weeks later, they entrained us and took us to Fallesleben, where we starved again for 
two full days. 
Six days later, we went on to Salzwedel. 
We stayed here for a week, and the glorious American troops arrived in the meantime, and 
liberated us from suffering horribly. They made sure we got the best supplies, clean and 
sterilised clothes, and later we arrived in Budapest with the Czech transport.