The person in question has given us the following information: 

On December 4, 1944 Arrow Cross men entered the building I stayed in. The house was under Papal protection. They told me that they were taking me away only to examine my papers. My husband was an exempted Jewish officer. They took me directly to 4 Teleki Square and from there to the Józsefváros railway station. Some 1800 labour servicemen and 360 women had already been there awaiting their entrainment. Forty of us were in a freight car. We got no provisions, so we could eat only the food we had brought with us. Four days later we arrived at Ács where our train stationed for three days. There they did us a favour and allowed us to get off the train to wash ourselves. Other times they let us get off only to relieve ourselves, but only if escorted by gendarmes.
In Zürndorf the Wehrmacht took over us. We were escorted by soldiers until we reached Bergen-Belsen. During the ten-day-long journey we got sufficient provisions. We got some warm soup in Zürndorf. When we were detrained in Bergen-Belsen, they told us we would be provided with a bed, good food and a warm bath.
Bergen-Belsen is a huge camp, which held approximately 40,000 people. Our transport was taken into the special camp. We, the women, were lodged in barrack no. 12. Our clothes were not taken away and we were given beds, indeed, in which two of us slept. We made every effort to clean ourselves, but we still got infested with lice. It was impossible to find protection against that. I worked in the infirmary as a nurse, but only for a very short time, because I fell ill. I was lying ill for six weeks. Our food supply was bad. We got two decilitres of coffee in the morning, turnip soup at noon and some bread in the evening. I cannot tell you the bread’s weight, because they measured it in centimetres. We got some Zulage too: cheese, margarine, marmalade or salami.
I am aware that they treated the labour servicemen in a terribly cruel way. My husband was among them. When I first saw him over the fence, I did not recognise him. Being wasted away, ragged, dirty and full of lice, the once big and strong man was standing at the wire fence, and he was begging for some turnips. I will always remember him saying that. Women were better in stealing turnips, because they were not treated as strictly as the labour servicemen. He was begging for a piece of turnip! He was beaten to death on April 2, 1945. I also know that some capos beat or shot dead a few poor prisoners, so that that they could make business out of their bread rations.
The number of deaths was above 50 or 60 every day. All in a heap, the corpses were taken to the crematorium.
They entrained 1200 or 1400 of us on April 6, 1945. We got no information about our destination. Rumour had it that we would be taken to Switzerland for prisoner exchange. It might have been true or false. We stopped in a forest near Magdeburg. It seemed that the train could not go further. We could hear shooting closer and closer. There was a close combat between the Germans and the approaching Allied troops. It is inexpressible how anxious we were about that. We suspected that our liberation was close, but we were also afraid that the SS would kill us in the very last moment. It seemed that they did not care about us, because they escaped. Suddenly an American soldier stepped out of the forest. It happened on April 13, 1945.
The American soldiers took us to Hillersleben where we received very kind treatment.
I found my old parents alive at home. Mow I am waiting for my son who is on his way home too. I am planning to emigrate, although it would be tough to leave my old parents behind. My son is going to decide on this.