The persons in question have given us the following information:

We used to have a wood store in Tiszafélegyháza. We belonged to the group of well-off 
people. Still in 1941, trading licence was withdrawn from my father, but later he managed to 
get it back. In March 1944, Germans invaded the country and since then we had no life. 
Gendarmes kept entering our flat to demand money and gold. Before they took us into the 
ghetto of Aknaszlatina they put us in a separate room while they collected all our valuables. 
When they finished they allowed us to bring a pack weighing 50 kilograms and took us into 
the ghetto. 

We could not leave the ghetto and go into the street. A person wanted to go out to find milk 
for his child. Gendarmes noticed him, took him into the lockup and beat him till he was 
bleeding. The gendarme in question was called Kovács. We lived on the food we had taken 
with us. We stayed here for 6 weeks before they entrained us. 

There were 80 of us in a freight car together with small children and elderly people. We were 
very thirsty, it was warm and the bucket of water they had given to us did not suffice. 
Hungarian gendarmes escorted us till Kassa where they handed us over to the SS, who kept 
demanding money and everything else, and threatened to shoot us unless we produced 
everything we had.

Three days later we arrived in Auschwitz. They separated me from my family; I remained 
together with my sister. They took us into the baths, cut our hair off, seized our clothes and 
shoes and gave us other ones in exchange, and then took us into Camp D, and later into Camp 
B into block 2. The Aufseherin of the block was Grese. Often, she did the selections instead 
of Dr Mengele, and if she did not like someone she sent her into crematorium. The 
Blockältester was a Slovakian called Herta, who often beat us up without any reason. We 
stayed there for three months. We did not have to work but passed all these months with 
standing lined up for roll calls. We starved and suffered.

At the beginning of September, they took us into Neusalz with a transport of labourers. We 
went to work for the thread company Groschwitz. Reveille was at 4 am, and we arrived in the 
plant in half an hour. At noon we had a break for an hour and a half, when we got a litre of 
dense soup, and at 7 pm we got three quarters of a litre of soup already in the camp. We 
received two loaves of bread a week and often we got also meat with the lunch. There were 
140 Hungarian girls, the rest were Polish. We worked till the beginning of February 1945. 

On the 2nd of February, as the front got very close to us they led us from Neusalz to 
Schlossenburg on foot. We walked for 6 weeks. We entered German flats to ask for some 
food. It was not allowed and in consequence SS men would beat us up hard but hunger made 
us endure beatings if we could nonetheless obtain a little food. 

In Schlossenburg we spent a week in a camp for men, we did not go to work but had a rest 
after the fatigue of the walk.

A week later they put us in freight cars and transported us into Bergen-Belsen. We did not see 
bread here for days, only some turnip soup at noon. There was no water, and we were very 
hungry and thirsty. The camps were dirty and full of lice; we were swarming with lice. We 
had typhus and enteritis. We could not even sleep as we had no straw but lay on the floor. 
There were so many corpses that we lay on corpses, walked over dead bodies. 

The 15th of April, 1945, the English liberated us. They opened for us English food stores and 
distributed food. Many starving people started to eat suddenly and it led to the death of still a 
great number of people. 

After our liberation the English carried us into the hospital of Bergen where I also lay with 
typhus. I was a bag of bones in bad condition but conscientious care and proper nutrition 
cured me in a few weeks time. 

At the beginning of June, Czech-Slovakians were rounded up and sent home. Our journey led 
through Prague. We spent a few weeks also in Prague, where the Red Cross gave us clothes, 
money and food. We had a good time, the Czechs were good and kind to us. We stay now a 
few days in Budapest, where we are the guests of the "DEGOB" for a few days, and then we 
return to Tiszafélegyháza to newly furnish our lengthily abandoned home.