The person in question has given us the following information:

On October 20, 1944 the Arrow Cross dragged me away from my building. I had been under police surveillance for years, since the communist belief of me and my family was widely known (B.R.). We marched through Pest County without having any particular destination; we made great detours. We built fortifications in Gödöllő for a couple of days, then we marched on the Vienna-bound highway.  The Arrow Cross guards were chasing us and shot 16 people. We always slept outdoors in the mud and rain. We were given a very small amount of food and they kept robbing us. It was a terrible journey. Finally in Zürndorf we were handed over to the Germans. We were entrained and taken right to Buchenwald.  It was a huge camp, but we could not see much of it, since during the week we spent there, we were in quarantine. 
From here we were taken to Altenburg. We worked at the Hasag Werke. Cannon balls and cartridge cases were manufactured there. We had to perform heavy physical work. We had to stand for 12 hours a day next to the machines and had to lift up machines weighing 30 quintals. Those who were not assigned to the factory were constructing bunkers from steel plates. There were women in the camp too, but it was strictly forbidden to talk to them. If somebody was caught, he was severely punished. We were supervised by capos and they cruelly beat people. Food was very scarce and poor; we were starving a lot. Many died due to fatal exhaustion. There were French and Czech prisoners here too.  They enjoyed more freedom than the Jews. They could move freely and what is more, they could receive packages. The Czechs were very kind and always gave us some food. Through my communist connections I was in a better position in the factory. The civilian workers brought bread, apples, butter and cigarettes for me, which I could exchange for other things. (R.)
The camp was evacuated at the end of April. The SS men consisted of mainly ethnic Baranya Germans, but they never wanted to talk in Hungarian. They chased us on the road for 27 kilometres. We do not know where they wanted to take us, since luckily the American troops caught up with us on the way near Waldenburg and liberated us from the Germans.