The person in question has given us the following information:

After arriving in Auschwitz, the elderly and the children were sent to the left by Dr Mengele. I was put to the right. I was epilated in the bath; my remaining clothes were taken away and I was given a striped uniform. On the first day I was accommodated in a crowded barrack with 1000 people. I was not given any food for days. I was beaten a lot. For eight days all they gave us was tea and bread. After two weeks we were transported to Fürstenstein; we got bread, margarine and a small piece of sausage for the trip.  The work was very hard therefore the weak collapsed soon. We were making a tunnel, which collapsed many times burying a lot of people. We were plastered by dust and filth. The provisions consisted of a half kilogram of bread, black margarine and some thick soup once in a while. 

Two fellows from Sátoraljaújhely escaped, but they were found in four days.  A gallows was erected in the camp and they were hanged in front of us. After work we had to dig graves and bury the dead. Many prisoners died. On February 14 we left the camp, since the Russians were approaching. We marched to Flossenbürg; those who were incapable of keeping up the pace were shot dead. We did not get food on the way. Taking a look at our tormented face, a German civilian offered me a slice of bread, but the SS guard intervened, cursed at his compatriot, called him a communist and shot him. We were sleeping in barns. Many ate wheat and other grains to satisfy their hunger. If they were caught, they were shot dead. Since we were too weak to march further, we were entrained: 120 persons in one freight car. There were at least 30 dead in each car. We travelled for three days without having anything to eat or drink. We arrived in Kravinki at the end of March; we were disinfected and selected. I was assigned to hard work: I had to drill a tunnel again. We worked from 4 pm to midnight. The food supply became weaker and weaker: it consisted of 20 decagrams of bread and some soup. After two weeks, 2000 of us left. Many died because of the air raids, but the majority were killed by the SS. Seventy of us survived. 
The Americans liberated us in Stampfsfred.