The person in question has given us the following information: 

After having spent eight days in the Irsava ghetto, we were transferred to Munkács by train. I was together with my parents and five siblings. We spent six weeks here. This ghetto was much worse than the previous one. We starved terribly and there was not enough room to accommodate of that many people; we had to sleep on the ground. The ghetto became the gendarmes’ most favourite source of amusement. They came in whenever they felt like doing so and beat whomever they liked. Sometimes they took us to the river and forced us to swim and to dive head on into the water. That would not have been a problem for the youths, but the elderly and the sick were compelled to do the same.

One day the door of the ghetto was opened, and we were driven into the cattle cars like sheep. During the four-day-long travel they kept promising that we would stay in the country and that we would not be separated from our families.

Then we arrived in Auschwitz, which was not in Hungary, and in the first minute I was separated from my parents and siblings. Six days later we were selected for a transport and went to Fünfteichen. It was a big camp with 6000 prisoners: Russians, Poles, French and Jews. We worked in the Krupp armament factory manufacturing aircraft axles. We got very little food: only bread and soup. The work was very hard and we were constantly beaten by the German capos. People grew weak; they were so hungry that they dug out raw turnips from the ground and rubbish from the dung heap. This, of course, caused dysentery and diarrhoea; they died silently.

I spent six months there, then we were set off on foot.  The march lasted several days and food was distributed only twice: one quarter of a loaf of bread on both occasions. We reached Gross-Rosen. This was a terrible camp. Lice were everywhere and our clothes were infested with them; we got hardly any food and people perished in large numbers. If somebody was too weak or too sick to queue up for the food distribution or if somebody asked for more food, he was beaten with sticks to death.

We left here too. We were entrained and we travelled for four days. On the fourth day the train came to a halt. A freight train was passing by. I thought that it would be the same to perish here or to be shot while escaping. I jumped over onto the freight train and hid there. I travelled for two days like this as far as the Polish border. At Czestochova I was so hungry that I could not stand it any longer: I got off, entered a peasant’s house and asked for food and enquired about partisans.

Following the information I was given, I went into the woods where I met Russian partisans in civilian clothes. I joined them; I got a white armband with a red star and a weapon: I became a partisan. What an incredible joy! Though in danger, I was an equal adversary not locked up somewhere, not helplessly delivered, but being able to fight the Germans, whom I hate more than anybody and anything else.

During the day we slept and at night we walked the forests. We blew up railways and hindered the enemy’s activity as we could. One evening we went on patrol and we saw the Germans approaching. Two of us standing in the front threw off our weapons and ran ahead. Seven comrades, who were in the bunker, could not do anything and they were all murdered by the Germans. We were caught too and transported to Buchenwald as political prisoners. We were beaten for two days to confess; we would not, so we were transferred to Dora.

As escapees, we were thrown into an underground cell, which got opened twice a day. First when our daily ration (one litre of soup and a one-eighth portion of bread) was brought in; second when bloodhounds were set on us. They bit and tore us for five or eight minutes, then they were called back. It would have been too difficult to have them tear us apart at once. So this went on for a fortnight. When they thought they had broken me, I was called out and asked: why was I in the woods on that night and whether I was a partisan or not? I insisted that I was there by accident and that I was a Russian refugee. They did not believe me and I was ordered by an SS man shouting at me to lift up my arms. I obeyed and then he shot through my left wrist. Though it hurt very much, I did not get frightened and I kept asserting what I said before. I was released from the cellar and I was put into the Aryan camp with Poles. I was assigned to light work: we were mending stockings all day long. I had to report at the office once a week to prove that I had not escaped. There was much more food than in the Jewish camp.

After a few weeks the whole camp was dissolved. We were taken by train, then we had to get off and march three kilometres to Bergen-Belsen. On this way we met large groups of Budapest Jews coming from the camp. They told us that Bergen-Belsen was a death camp where typhus and dysentery were raging; there was no food and heaps of corpses marked the future of all prisoners. They themselves looked like dead: they were skin and bones and death was written on their faces.

Five friends of mine and I fled. We ran into the woods and we were hiding there for three days. On the fourth day we experienced an air raid; afterwards I did not find my friends. As I was running on the road, I came across a tank. The officer sitting on it asked me the way to Berlin. I showed him. He invited me to join him and I did. From there I got to Bergen where I worked in the kitchen. I cooked for English soldiers and I was quite well off. 

First I will travel home to see if any of my family members have survived, then I will return to Prague. There I am awaited by an American soldier with whom I got acquainted and who came to like me so much that he wants to take me to America. As a matter of fact, it has always been my dream to go to America.