The person in question has given us the following information: 

I lived in Budapest where my husband owned a flourishing private surgery. He was taken to dig trenches in September 1944. I moved into a Swiss protected house to avoid deportation. However, on December 1, 1944 the Arrow Cross occupied the house and took us to 5 Teleki Square where they robbed us of everything except for the most basic items. Then they took us directly to the Józsefváros railway station where we were entrained. We were travelling for nine days and the only thing we got to eat during the whole journey was a little portion of warm meal. I lived on some walnuts and sugar that I had brought with me.
After nine days of exhausting travel we arrived in Ravensbrück at late night. We lived in tents on a hilltop. We had nothing but a dress on, because they had taken away all of our belongings. We had to wake up at 2:30 in the morning. After that we were lined up for roll call and taken out to the mountains to shovel sand. Our SS guards were brutal. They were always urging us to work and beating us. We were lying on the bare brick floor in the camp during the first 12 days. Then a German committee inspected the camp and upon that they brought beds for us. Two thousand two hundred of us were crowded into tents covered with canvas. My feet were frostbitten. I went and complained to a female SS overseer named Wanda. When I told her that I could not go out to work in such a condition, she slapped me in the face. She was always striving to make as many people die as possible. She talked about the crematorium all the time. I grew very weak and I weighed only 35 kilograms. I saw people dying off every day and I felt that I would die soon too.
One day I was taken to the bath and after that a physician examined me. The SS physician learned that I was a wife of a medical doctor and when he saw my poor condition he took pity on me. He asked if I wanted to go to work in a factory. Of course I said yes, because I did not want to stay in the infirmary. Hence, I was out on a transport of labourers and taken to Pennig on foot. 
We were in a slightly better situation in Pennig. Even though we were beaten with truncheons there as well, we had a chance to wash ourselves and we were allowed to leave the block. We felt as if we were human beings at least to a certain extent. In Ravensbrück we could not bathe and therefore we became full of lice. We worked in an aircraft factory that was four kilometres from the camp. We marched there every day. Eighteen fellow prisoners died because they could not march: the SS shot them.
The camp was evacuated on April 16, 1945, because the Americans were approaching. They drove us further on foot to Chemnitz. The guards were lagging behind one by one along the way and therefore we arrived without guards. We stayed in barns for one or two days. Once there was an air raid and one of our fellows died from the blast. Then the Americans liberated us. We stayed there for five more weeks. As soon as we partly recovered, we set off for home.
I could not find my husband and my son at home and my flat had been totally emptied. I was the wife of a rich physician in the past and now I am totally poor and penniless. At the National Committee for Attending Deportees they promised to accommodate and help me.