The person in question has given us the following information:

When we arrived in Auschwitz, still at the station they separated the old, the weak and 
children from young people fit for work. I arrived with my five brothers and sisters and I 
could not stand watching how my brothers and sister were separated from their children. 
They did not want to hand over their children. They preferred to go with them. I was 
standing in some distance, and later, in the baths I met one of my sisters, while the others 
remained there. In the baths they cut our hair off. They seized all that we had and after the 
bath everyone got a piece of grey garment. The weather was horrible, it was raining and we 
went into the block barefoot. We got into Camp A, block 26. Eight of us lay on a bunk 
sharing a cover. On the day when we arrived we got nothing to eat. Next day, at 4 am there 
was reveille and we reported for roll call and stood in the rain for two hours. At noon we 
got a little bread and a coffee without sugar. Everyday we got soup. Five of us ate from the 
same pot without a spoon. In the evening, we got a portion of bread and a little margarine.
 All the time there were selections. At selections we had to pass naked in front of men in 
the yard, twice a day, and they singled out the sick, took them away by car and we 
never saw them again. Later, we learnt that the selected people were carried to the 
crematorium, and also saw columns of flames coming out the top of the chimney – this 
was the chimney of the famous crematorium. They selected us for a transport as well, 
and put us in a separate block, where there were great numbers of bugs. My poor younger 
sister badly scraped her body because of the bugs. We were already ready to leave when 
the doctor came and everyone had to undress once again, and he declared that he 
wanted only clean and healthy women, and he made my sister and another young girl, 
on whom he found two rashes, step out of line. This was how my younger sister remained 
in Auschwitz, while I left with the transport. I tried to step out of line, too, but the doctor 
shouted that there was no such thing as “sisters” and that “you are healthy while she is 
sick,” so I had to leave with the transport. They entrained us. We got a little bread and some 
margarine for the journey. We travelled for 5 days till we arrived in Mühldorf. We did not 
work for three days because the journey had worn us out. We looked horrible; we were all 
bald. Russian, French, etc. prisoners of the place could not decide whether we were women 
or men. We were horribly ugly. We got into a block where we were very cold all through 
the winter. We were assigned work in a forest. All day long we had to cook tea for the men 
working there. Men built bunkers and worked with dry cement. There was such a stifling air 
at work that 1,200-1,400 people drowned every day because of work. When all these men 
died they made women do the same work. Gradually, also women fell sick. We were lucky 
that we only had to do this work for another month because if it had lasted even a week 
longer we would not have endured it.
 When the enemy was quite close, the Hauptscharführer declared to another officer that he 
was not going to hand over so many prisoners to the enemy. He said that a part of them 
needed to be executed. Next, we were put in 17 freight cars. We did not hope to survive 
anymore. Spring was already coming in Mühldorf, and they took us to a place where it was 
still wintertime. On the road we had an air attack. The enemy must have thought that ours 
were German freight cars and that was why they bombed us. Their goal was to hit the 
engine so that the freight cars could not proceed but they failed. Bombings killed around a 
half of us. When the capos saw what happened they took the striped dress off the corpses 
and put them on top of the freight cars, while they put the bodies up in the car, and we 
carried on. Suddenly the Kommandoführer stopped the engine and told us: “You are free, 
you can go wherever you want.” Everybody ran in all directions, towards the houses of 
civilians and we started asking for food but those people did not want to give it to us. Later, 
German soldiers surrounded the town and asked why we were going around and told us that 
we were only rubbish and started shooting at us. Unfortunately, 75 percentage of the people 
passed away here. The people who survived carried on together with the Kommandoführer. 
When he saw how close the enemy was he said he would save our lives if we saved his life. 
Prisoners started kissing his hands and feet since they could not imagine that there was still 
some hope for survival. Suddenly the engine stopped, they opened the freight cars and we 
got terribly frightened that the same would happen as earlier. By that time, the English 
understood that there were prisoners in the freight cars so they encircled the train with tanks 
and freed us. Everyone was crying with joy and kissing the soldiers. We were throwing 
grass on them in our happiness while they gave us chocolate and all the good things. They 
were frightened to see what we looked like. We jumped on the tanks and that was how they 
encircled the town: together with the prisoners.