The person in question has given us the following information:

The 24th of July 1944, I was drafted for labour service in Csepel. This was a 
labourers’ company working for a war plant, working with iron structures and 
cement bunkers. I had a relatively tolerable life in Csepel, since I met a 
communist friend of mine (called István Bednarik, who lived in Csepel, 40 Szent 
István Road), who was at my complete disposal. He supported me with food, gave 
me good advice and firmly thwarted Arrow Cross attacks against me.
The 16th of August, I was taken away to work in a quarry. It was in Csákhegy, in 
a quarry of white stones, I had to fill small wagons with the white material 
that miners produced. It was a hard work, we worked 8 hours a day, and the 
manager rushed us (unfortunately, I forgot his name). Miners felt sympathy 
towards us, as they also complained about the way the manager treated them but 
could do nothing because they were threatened to have problems with the 
authorities if they countered him. Later, the plant was damaged by air raids, we 
stopped working and were taken back to Csepel the 30th of August, 1944.
Until the 26th of October, I worked in Csepel, when we got the order to leave 
for West Hungary at 7 am the day after. 
After 8 days of miserable march that crossed Gy?r we arrived in Mosonmagyaróvár. 
Treatment was tolerable as our captain count Miklós Mikes demanded that privates 
treated us decently. There was not a single roll call during the trip although 
they were well aware of the fact that many had escaped.

The 24th of July 1944, I was drafted for labour service in Csepel. This was a 
labourers’ company working for a war plant, working with iron structures and 
cement bunkers. I had a relatively tolerable life in Csepel, since I met a 
communist friend of mine (called István Bednarik, who lived in Csepel, 40 Szent 
István Road), who was at my complete disposal. He supported me with food, gave 
me good advice and firmly thwarted Arrow Cross attacks against me.
The 16th of August, I was taken away to work in a quarry. It was in Csákhegy, in 
a quarry of white stones, I had to fill small wagons with the white material 
that miners produced. It was a hard work, we worked 8 hours a day, and the 
manager rushed us (unfortunately, I forgot his name). Miners felt sympathy 
towards us, as they also complained about the way the manager treated them but 
could do nothing because they were threatened to have problems with the 
authorities if they countered him. Later, the plant was damaged by air raids, we 
stopped working and were taken back to Csepel the 30th of August, 1944.
Until the 26th of October, I worked in Csepel, when we got the order to leave 
for West Hungary at 7 am the day after. 
After 8 days of miserable march that crossed Gy?r we arrived in Mosonmagyaróvár. 
Treatment was tolerable as our captain count Miklós Mikes demanded that privates 
treated us decently. There was not a single roll call during the trip although 
they were well aware of the fact that many had escaped.
During the morning of the 5th of November, they handed us over to Germans in 
Hegyeshalom. The list of our names was checked now. We had prepared this list 
the day before in three copies consulting the company’s book. 
We marched to Zürndorf, where we were put on carriages, around 1,200 of us. They 
gave us warm mush, half a loaf of bread, a big portion of margarine and cheese. 
No one died during the journey; we only suffered of thirst. Although we were 
allowed to take water on certain stations there was not enough time to provide 
1,200 people water because the train remained still only for short periods of 
time. They did not assault us on train and we arrived sound in Türkheim during 
the night of the 6th of November.
We were accommodated in Türkheim in a camp which was brand new, not even 
finished. The head of the camp, a German Wehrmacht-soldier called Hoffmann 
treated us in a human way – probably because he wanted to let others forget 
about the crimes he had committed in France in 1942. (I heard later that he had 
been captured because of them.)
Our job was first to finish the camp, later, when it was ready, Kommandos were 
put together and we had to build houses for the Todt organization, construct 
ducts, unload wagons, cut wood, etc. Life in the camp of Türkheim was better 
than in other camps so we called the place the sanatorium of Türkheim. In the 
first three months three men died but all of sicknesses taken from home.
We were transferred to Kaufering. We worked 12 hours in night shifts for the 
Moll-plant, we had to carry cement while we were treated in the most brutal way. 
For the smallest faults we were beaten. Our enfeebled bodies could not cope with 
heavy cement sacks. Ten days later people started to die. Food provision was 
minimal, the work was terribly hard, our system got weaker and weaker; we became 
“muslims.” 
Once they crushed my head with a stone because I was not fast enough although I 
had no more energy to work faster as I became too weak. A doctor treated me but 
an hour later I had to continue working. We had to carry heavy cement sacks 
weighing 50 kilos each down to an underground construction below a so-called 
“arch”, making 102 stairs every time.
We lived in small wooden huts, 13 of us in a hut. We were so much crammed that 
could lie only on the side, and if someone moved he bothered the other 12 
people.
We were woken at 5 am when we received some coffee without sugar, at noon we got 
300 grams of bread, later only 200, and 20 grams of margarine or 50 grams of 
sausage at the workplace. In the evening, at the beginning we got a litre and a 
half of some tolerable soup but two weeks later it also changed, and it turned 
into a litre of empty “bunker” or cabbage soup made without any grease.
We would have all died of hunger if Jewish girls living with us had not 
supported us as much as they could. They mostly did some easier kitchen work or 
some other work around the kitchen and had more chance to steal some food, 
especially potatoes. It was strictly prohibited even to talk to them but they 
kept carrying us potatoes, or at least potato peels, bread, stalks of cabbage, 
in brief anything they could obtain with the risk of being assaulted or even 
killed. They disciplined them, searched them and punished them in vain, the next 
day they would carry on supplying us.
I could endure sufferings partly because I was mentally strong. I always knew 
that I was going to get home, I hoped and felt that I would find my family home. 
I went on encouraging myself saying “you can do it.”
At the end of April, we had to move on because of the American pressure. Before 
we left they told us that we would be handed over to the Red Cross, and everyone 
could return home. The reason behind was probably to keep us back from escaping. 
Otherwise the order they received must have been Himmler’s infamous simple 
order: "Vernichten!"
We arrived in Allach, where great fights started as soon as we got there because 
the camp lay in the crossfire of American and SS soldiers. After two days of 
fighting the first American soldier appeared. They gave us everything: 
chocolate, candies, cigarettes, they gave us food and treated the sick. In 
brief, they saved us.
We came home individually.