The persons in question have given us the following information: 

On April 3, 1944 we were taken to the ghetto and spent ca. four weeks there.  We were completely plundered: our money and valuables were taken away; they have even deprived us of the one or two pieces of bread we were able to acquire somehow.  This plunder started already in the village. For example in Felsőverecke a local farmer named József Kondzsure robbed our house. Naturally there were people who tried to escape from the ghetto. We fled too, but we were captured and taken back. Besides a few slaps in the face we were not punished. Otherwise the ghetto was guarded strictly by the gendarmerie and the police. Approximately 8000 persons were rounded up in Munkács and 20,000 in Ungvár. On May 6 we were entrained. We suspected that we would be deported abroad, but we had no idea about the destination. We got ca. one and a half loaf of bread and some marmalade for the whole trip. Eighty to ninety people were crammed into one cattle car. We did not get anything to drink besides what I just mentioned above.  After three or four days of travel we arrived in Auschwitz. We were ordered to get off. After being counted, the elderly, the young, women, men and children were separated. We were separated from our parents; we have no idea what happened to them. We did not work in Auschwitz, but after ca. two weeks we were asked to report if we wanted to go to work. We did and this is how we were taken to Fürsteinstein. Here we dug ditches and worked with concrete. The accommodation, the food and the treatment was relatively good; unfortunately after eight months we were taken to Flossenbürg, where we got under very bad circumstances. Our lodging was terrible. There was no room, so four of us had to sleep in one bed. Our rations were bad and scarce; moreover we were beaten all the time. We spent three weeks here, but we did not have to work. From here we were transported to Leonburg. Our situation here was not any better than in Flossenbürg. The workers treated us badly: they constantly beat us too. After approximately three months of work we were taken to Landsberg where typhoid fever raged. We estimate the number of those who died in typhoid fever at ca. 40 percent. The Americans liberated us here.