The person in question has given us the following information:

There were ca. 2,000 Jews in Nagykapos. They were tradesmen, farmers, craftsmen, 
lawyers, etc. Most of them lived agreeably. We also lived well: we had 3 houses.
When Hungarians entered the country in 1938, we started to experience 
antisemitism. They broke windows, molested Jews, and no one could go around with 
a beard. For around 2-3 weeks, Jews were scared to leave their houses, later, 
this situation became a bit more tranquil. The town itself made these 
antisemitic statutes. It was the son of the bishop Sándor Magda who principally 
coordinated these events, together with the first notary, a person called Pápa. 
They were fierce antisemites who threw stones at people, etc. Jews were terribly 
desperate but could do nothing. The members of the Jewish Council were decent 
people; we were pleased with them.
The beginning of March, 1944, I came to visit people in Pest and stayed here two 
weeks. The 19th, I wanted to travel home, went to the railway station where they 
asked about my religion. I told them I was a Jew. Right away they grabbed me and 
put me in detention. The same night they transported me to Kistarcsa, where I 
stayed for 6 weeks. The first week was bad, but later it was the Hungarian 
National Jewish Aid Action  that gave us food and that was already more tolerable.
The 25th of April, they told us that we would go for work in Hungary, but it 
became clear already in the freight cars that it was untrue as these were German 
cars. There were 60 of us in a freight car, a great number of whom fell ill, 
many lost their consciousness, etc. We got water at a railway station. We 
travelled for two days but got nothing to eat. We were very hungry.
The 29th of April, we arrived in Auschwitz. We had to queue up in lines of five 
people, and there were already numerous cars waiting there. SS soldiers came and 
asked who felt sick. Many who were tired of the journey reported. They were 
immediately put on vehicles and were taken away. The rest went through a 
selection. They either took you into the crematorium or to the baths. In the 
baths we had to remain completely naked, they seized all our clothes and 
everything we had. During the whole week, all through the day we had to stand in 
flimsy clothes in cold and rain, and wait till we received an empty block where 
we could sleep. The day after, we were taken for work. We had to construct the 
railway station together with other transports of people. We worked in cold, in 
mud, and in rain. We were hungry and cold. I stayed 9 months in Auschwitz and 
endured the worst. We were beaten. We lined up for roll calls every morning and 
evening for two hours. We were starving and many died because of starvation. We 
got a half litre of soup and 150 grams of bread a day. Half of the people in the 
block died.
We were evacuated and transported to Ravensbrück. We travelled for 5 days in the 
freezing cold, crammed in freight cars. I cannot even tell how many people were 
crammed in there. We had nothing to eat during these five days.
We arrived in Ravensbrück, where there were a great number of Germans who 
tortured and beat us. We could not wash since we were not allowed to go into the 
bathroom. We got lice. 
We stayed six weeks in Ravensbrück before I was selected for a transport that 
went to Neustadt. Here we worked on the fields, hoeing potato plants. This was 
the place where we starved the most. The meal was not better than pure water 
accompanied by an eighth of a loaf of bread. We were full of lice, we had to 
take off our clothes and had to walk around nude in wooden shoes, our feet 
became completely swollen. 60% of the people died here.
The 2nd of May, the Russians liberated us. They treated us well.
My future plans: to emigrate as soon as possible.