The persons in question have given us the following information: 

The Jewish Law did not affect us, since we were labourers. 

We started our labour service in 1943 in Örkény where we spent 18 months. Until October 1944 we worked at various construction sites; we built Catholic and Reformed churches, beaches and bunkers. During this time we were treated in a tolerable way. 

In October 1944 we were set off for Veszprém. We constructed bunkers for the SS there too. Later, when it came to the deportation, we escaped and hid in the Bakony Mountains where we fed ourselves for three months. However somebody denounced us; the Arrow Cross circled and took us to Veszprém where they robbed us, beat us up very badly and closed us up in a dark cellar for three days without any food. Afterwards we went to Körmend where we were beaten up again (for example my teeth were knocked out - H.L) and then set off westwards. 

We had to walk without eating; marching was indeed very exhausting this way. After a long walk we arrived in Reinersdorf where we presented our documents and got food immediately. We spent two weeks there. 

The treatment was tolerable. We had to construct fortifications. 

From here we were set off for Mauthausen. It took 18 days for us to get there and during the whole march food was distributed only three times. There was a lot of shooting and beating to death; all in all many were killed on the way. 

After 18 days we arrived in Mauthausen. We started to starve really intensely here. Our rations were very scarce: one decilitre of coffee in the morning and three decilitres of turnip soup at noon, so we started to grow weak fast. A lot of people died; according to our estimations, 120-150 a day. We were kicked and beaten by the supervising SS a lot. We thought life could not be any worse than that, but we were wrong, since the worst was still to come. 

Around April 22 we were set off in groups of 5000for a destination ca. 60 kilometres away. We were leaving without any food and in the course of three days we got some waste food only once. The SS kept shooting those who - trying to ease the terrible hunger - stepped out of line to pick up some grass, rape or snails. Instead of allowing us to rest for a bit, those who were weak and incapable of marching were also shot dead. Hundreds of corpses were lying along the road where we passed. 

As we arrived at our destination, Günskirchen, 2000 of us were lodged in a wooden barrack that had room for 500 people. People were utterly exhausted: they could hardly walk and all of us just crawled along. If somebody was pushed by accident, he never got up. In the yard and on the path leading to the latrines corpses were lying everywhere in the blazing sun, spreading diseases and emanating a terrible smell. The daily mortality average was around 300-400. Most of the prisoners died of hunger and typhoid fever. We were teeming with lice, which was a special torture. 

The food was bad and scarce. Many times we were given mouldy bread, the daily portion of which was 8-10 decagrams. Lack of water was a particular misfortune. We not only starved, but were very thirsty too. 

We were deeply desperate and ready to die when the American army liberated us on May 4, 1945. From then on we were well off. 
All the above is based on our own experience.