The person in question has given us the following information: 

There were ca. 250 Jewish families living in Nagykálló. They were mainly merchants and craftsmen, but there were some physicians, lawyers and engineers too. All of us lived under decent financial circumstances. 

The antisemitic decrees were launched in 1942, when trade licenses and shops were taken away from the Jews. 
      
The ghetto started on April 19, 1944. We could take only a small amount of belongings there: the rest was either taken away or had to be left behind.  
      
We were terribly miserable in the ghetto. They were beating us, we were given very little food and they did not let us go for water. Five thousand people were squeezed into the small area of the ghetto and gendarmes guarded us. We lost many people. We did not have to work a lot; our main task was to keep the ghetto clean. 
      
We were entrained on May 19, 1944. There were 70 of us in one cattle car.  We had to leave the luggage in the barracks: we were told that they would be sent after us. Therefore we left with a very few belongings. We walked eight kilometres to the train station. The locals were watching indifferently what had been done to us. 
      
We did not have water in the cattle car, neither a bucket for bodily needs.  I do not know where we were handed over to the Germans, since even the windows were closed; we could barely breathe. Animals travel more comfortably than we did. 
     
After the arrival in Auschwitz we were selected. I was torn apart from my relatives. We were taken to the bath where we had to undress; our clothes were taken away and we were disinfected. Later we got clothes and we were put into a block. We got food only the next day. For three days our main activity was lining up for roll call for hours. 
      
A few hundred of us were transported from Auschwitz to Krakow.  I worked here in the dressmaker workshop of a Polish camp. We worked 12 hours a day in day or night shifts.  Our rations were very small and we starved a lot. 
      
We were teeming with lice, since partly we could not wash ourselves and partly we had to repair uniforms full of lice. Therefore the whole camp was teeming with lice. 
      
 We were walking long distances to our working place and we starved a lot too. 
      
From here I was taken to Neustadt. I was very sick and I was lying for seven weeks.  Later I worked in the kitchen but I got sepsis. I luckily recovered. 
      
Later I was working in a factory with 400 other prisoners. We got a very small amount of food and the work was very hard.   
      
From there I was taken to Bergen-Belsen. We had to march 200 kilometres in nine days, which was extremely hard.  
      
We did not work here, but did not get anything to eat for three weeks either. We ate grass and drank salty water. Many of us fell ill with typhus because of this. The female block leader did not allow us to go for water and if some of us did, she was beaten up. There were approximately 10-15 dead in the block and altogether 300 in the camp. This was the camp with the fewest survivors. 

I have no information about my family members. I was torn apart from my sister: she was taken away with a transport. 
      
All the above is based on my own experience.