The person in question has given us the following information:

I started my labour service in Komárom on October 7, 1943. From there we went to the Carpathian Mountains with the same guards. Lance Sergeant Kranitz was the most bloodthirsty member of the guard unit: he shot dead many Jewish boys with his own hands. Commander of the company Lieutenant Gábor Oláh amused himself by hitting the boys with a pickaxe; of course he did not give us enough supply either.  
While retreating, we crossed the Danube at Esztergom and we also went to Székesfehévár, but I could not manage to stop by home, not even for a moment. First we were taken to Balatonszabadi then to Komárom. Here the Russians caught up with us and then came another retreat. We went to Sopron from where we were deported after two weeks. 
We were taken to Schattendorf. We spent two months there and performed earthwork. There were 1200 of us in the village. Our food supply was very scarce, many died here due to fatal exhaustion, which strictly speaking meant hunger. The Austrian population treated us very well: we could obtain many things from them and most of the boys had a place to go after work where he was given supper and some apples. 
We were taken further; we marched to Mauthausen. We spent two weeks there. We suffered terribly from the hunger; we got a very small amount of food: only turnip soup and a small piece of mouldy bread. Many died there, most of them due to fatal exhaustion, but diarrhoea and typhoid fever also took their toll. 
After two weeks we marched to Günskirchen.  During the three-day-long trip food was distributed only once: a small amount of turnip soup. Many died, since they were incapable of walking because of the exhaustion and the hunger; those lagging behind were shot dead. We were practically grazing on the way; we ate all kinds of edible grass: only ravaged fields were left behind.  This was mortally dangerous, since if they noticed that one of us stepped out of the line, he was shot dead.  
I fell ill immediately after arriving in Günskirchen. The physicians said that it was not typhoid fever, since those with that sickness were executed, but I knew that actually it was. I was sick when on May 4 the Americans liberated us. We were taken to the US army hospital and I was there until the end of July. 
Later I was taken to Hörsching and then I came home with a transport via Sopron.