The person in question has given us the following information:
At the end of April, 1944, on the order of gendarmes they closed us in ghetto, which was in a 
street that had been designated for this purpose. Gendarmes seized our cloths and beat us.

We lived in ghetto for four weeks. We did not have to work but were frequently plundered 
and beaten by gendarmes. A soup kitchen provided us food.

Four weeks later, we were moved into a brick factory, where we stayed for three days. 
Beatings were frequent also here, while they thoroughly robbed us.

Three days later, they entrained us. There were 74 of us in a closed cattle car. We got no 
water during the journey and we felt terribly tormented. Making different threats gendarmes 
tried to rob us in the cattle car. Several of us died, mostly elderly people.

After four days of indescribable suffering we arrived in Auschwitz early at dawn. I will never 
forget the first impressions, the huge fires that lit the area from all sides.
Selections started right away lead by camp doctor Mengele, and I was separated from my 
parents and brothers and sisters. After depilation and bath I got into lager C, block 13, which 
was completely empty and dark. 

There were 1,000 of us under the same roof, 12 of us on a bunk but sometimes even more.

We did not have to work at all. Reveille was at 3 am at dawn, and was followed by roll call, 
which lasted till 8 am in the morning. Lunch was distributed at 3 pm, which was a green soup 
with an inedible taste, cooked with sand.

Selections were almost every day. The weak had to step aside and were sent in gas chamber.
Treatment was horrible. During the roll call at dawn we stood in the open even if it was 
raining hard. We stood there bald in a piece of flimsy cloth without shoes, because they had 
seized our good shoes. We could not re-enter the block during the day; we had to stay in front 
of the block until the evening whatever the weather was like. And when in the evening we 
eventually wanted to lie down we saw in dismay the berths full of water because rain had 
fallen through the roof. We ended up spending the night on wet berths and lining up for roll 
call in soaking clothes the following day.

I remember camp doctor Mengele frequently entering the block at night in the dark and 
having nude women without selections carried by cars into gas chambers.
A great number of people died of exhaustion caused by malnutrition.

Around six months later, we had to carry on towards Schlesiensee. For the journey we 
received a loaf of bread and some margarine.

We arrived after two days travel. We were lodged in a straw store, 500 of us in the same room 
crammed like herrings. Lying down was out of the question. If someone stood up and came 
back a few minutes later her place was already occupied. When there was a snowstorm it 
snowed on our bodies as if we had slept in the open.

Reveille was at 4 am, and we turned out for roll call right after, and left for work at 6 am.
We dug trenches and were treated in an awful manner. If someone claimed she was sick but 
had no temperature she was not recognised as sick and had to go on working. But even those 
who had temperature had to do night work.
We worked from 7 am till 6 pm while we had minimal rations: 200 grams of bread and three 
quarters of a litre of soup a day. Very many people died of hunger and typhus.

Opportunity to clean was scarce. Every ten days we could use half a day for cleaning. This 
was when we washed the clothes we used, and we stayed up all night long to dry our clothes 
at the stove by next morning.

As the front got closer we had to move on. We started off on foot by night. We got a loaf of 
bread for the trip.

We walked for two and a half weeks suffering in an incredible way. Tortured by terrible 
hunger we ate snow. If locals wanted to give us a little water the SS would not allow it and 
would give us a beating.
We were all the time rushed and spent the nights in the open. If it happened that we could stay 
under some kind of roof rain would certainly fall through so it did not lessen our misery.

My feet got so swollen during the journey that I could not stand on them. I fell behind, and 
entered a village, where I managed to go into hiding. The following day, of course they 
counted the wrong number, and the SS went in search of me but luckily they could not find 
me. 
For three weeks I remained in hiding in a farmer’s place. I suffered terribly from hunger and 
ate oat and snow in distress.
Three weeks later, our saviours, the glorious Russian troops arrived. The farmer ran away and 
I was liberated.

When I saw Polish and Russian prisoners on the highway I joined them and walked till 
Krüsen, where Russian troops captured us and we worked together with Russian prisoners on 
a farm.

For five months we received the best supplies and had proper accommodation till they got the 
order to carry prisoners home and finally it was my turn.
I travelled with a Russian transport that was heading towards Russia. I met Romanian Jews in 
Lodz and joined them till Kattowitz, where I spent four weeks, from where I finally managed 
to come to Budapest crossing Czech lands.