The person in question has given us the following information

I received a call up order as a recruit for a three months long retraining on 5th October 1942. They 
sent me to the reservists and took me to the replacement office in Szászrégen on 15th January. 
There I was put in the marching company immediately, but we remained there and we went to work 
in a quarry, where the work was very hard. 

On 27th April they took us to the Ukraine. At the first time we did very well, later they took us to 
Vilcsa, where we had to build a big fortification. It was awful there, we worked together with 
sappers; they beat us like dogs all the time, only because we were not able to carry 2 quintals. The 
new commander of our company was worse too, he helped the sappers to beat us. They beat us 
until they got as much from us as they could. 

In the autumn we retreated through the Tripetin marshes, and meanwhile they used us to discover 
antipersonnel mines by stepping on them.  They sent us forward, and the division was marching 
after us. When a mine exploded under the feet of my comrades and they died or got wounded, we 
were chased along with whips, because we were already afraid. The commander of our company 
did these things. He was László Treszler, a bank-clerk from Beregszász. The guards were just as 
bad as himself, they beat and abused the Jews all the time. There were always retreats in the 
meantime, we did not stop anywhere. We starved very much on the way, our daily provisions 
contained a spoonful of jam or half a pastille of black coffee. We sold our clothes to get food for 
them, otherwise we would have died of hunger, and there was a period of ten days, when we did 
not get a bite of bread, only some soup.  

In May 1944 we were sent to the frontline to carry ammunition and wounded and dead people. We 
lived in awful circumstances then, we worked day and night without relief and we were beaten 
there too. This lasted until about October. They took us from one place to another, we carried logs 
to the frontline; we had some rest only when the mines were exploding. Then I was moved to a 
workshop, where we produced commemorative rings. Captain Urbán was there with us, who was a 
very dear man; we did very well, we lived like civilians, we even went to amusement places as if 
we had been human beings. 

In the first week of January 1945 I was put in a collecting camp in Mosonmagyaróvár, where we 
were treated like prisoners. They took away everything from us. From there Arrow Cross men and 
gendarmes escorted us to Sopron. Some days later, we were taken from Sopron to Schattendorf, 
Austria. We dug anti-tank ditches. The weather was terrible as compared to our shabby clothes, the 
hands and feet of many of us got frost. Otherwise, we were treated quite well. We spent about a 
month there, then they took us to a collecting camp in a quarry, where about 16,000 Jews stayed. 
From there they took us to a train station where we were entrained to be taken to Mauthausen. On 
the way at night the Arrow Cross men entertained themselves with throwing a piece of iron on the 
road in the dark and if somebody did not notice it and tripped over it they hit his head with a butt 
and shot him dead, while they were laughing and making fun of him. About 300 people were 
executed like that at that night. Then they took 120 of us in a cattle car, they gave us 100 grams of 
bread and 20 grams of margarine for 4 days. They did not give us water though, and those who got 
off for a little water was beaten to death. 

We spent 10 days in Mauthausen; from there they took us to Günskirchen. We had already been 
very weak, we could hardly walk, and they gave us food only once in 4 days. Those who fell 
behind on the way they shot dead. 2,500 of us were put up in a block, we had no place even to sit 
down. They brought us water in a pot for bathing and drinking. We became infested with lice, we 
became tattered; our provisions were some soup without anything, there was no fat in it, 3 decilitres 
of black coffee and 100 grams of bread, so 300-400 people died of hunger every day. 

On 4th May the Americans liberated us, I got to a camp in Hörsching; it was in an airfield. From 
there I was taken immediately to the Hörsching hospital where I was lying unconscious for 4 
weeks. I regained my consciousness only once when they put some food into my mouth. I looked 
awful afterwards, I had lost 30 kilos, they fed me up from my ill condition with glucose injections. 
A little lung trouble and some weakness have remained, but they treated us as well as possible. 
Later when I was discharged from hospital, my legs swelled. I had got to Romanian Camp No. 39 
in Linz by then, where our provisions were very bad. I fell ill again, I got diarrhoea and I was going 
to the toilet all day long. I had a relapse to the same condition as I was in at the time of my 
liberation. When I was taken to the hospital of the camp, they gave me better provisions, double 
rations, but after my recovery my body became full of furuncles because of the lack of vitamins. 

For the time being, I want to go home to find my family. I will go abroad if I manage, but I do not 
yet know, where.