The person in question has given us the following information:

Some 800-1000 Jews lived in Técső. They were agricultural and construction workers: poor people, like me.
In March 1939 Carpatho-Ruthenia was annexed to Hungary; the revision of the trade licences began the same time. 
The expulsions from the country commenced in 1941. In June, July and August some 30,000 Jews were expelled from Carpatho-Ruthenia, because they could not present certificates of citizenship. Those people were deported.
I began my labour service in Nagybánya. We were treated badly. Our guards were beating us. There was a captain by the name of Martoni, who was always very bad to us. Two months later we went to Ditró. On the first day we went out to work and we were not given any food. Then a new group of guards came; we were very frightened of them, because they were the notorious sappers. We were working hard at the railway station. We spent three months there before we went to Szombathely. We spent another three months in that town and worked at the railway station too. There we were handed over to the Arrow Cross, who took everything away from us and beat us up. Later we were handed over to the German SS at the border in Hegyeshalom.
We arrived at Wappendorf where we worked for three months. We were digging bunkers. After working there we marched to Mauthausen. Along the way we hardly received any food, therefore our health had gotten totally ruined. We had a terrible time in that camp. We could not even wash ourselves and they gave us very little food: one kilogram of bread for 10 prisoners and some soup twice a day. We were extremely worn out and weakened. There were some 50 deaths per day: most of them died from starvation.
We marched from Mauthausen to Günskirchen. On the first day they put 2200 of us into a block. It was so crowded that we were sleeping in a standing position. We could not bathe and therefore we were teeming with lice. We were not working there at all, but they were always beating us. There was a German corporal, who stroke dead whoever he wanted. We got two decilitres of coffee in the morning and three decilitres of soup in the evening.
On May 5 the Americans marched in and liberated us.

The above facts are based on my own experiences.