The person in question has given us the following information

I was deported to Auschwitz along with the ghetto of Huszt. My family set off together, I arrived in 
Auschwitz together with my parents and my 6 siblings. My mother and my four little siblings were 
sent to the left side immediately and I was left together with my younger sister. 

We did not work at all in Auschwitz, but the provisions were horrible. They gave us 250 grams of 
bread with a little Zulag daily, some bitter black coffee twice a day and an inedible soup. The 
selections are my worst memories. I do not like to think of them even now. I had Slovak relatives 
in the camp; they let me know what selections meant. We had to undress completely. Mengele 
selected us. Those who had nice bodies he sent to transports, while the thin people he sent to 
the gas. He decided on life and death within minutes. We lived in continuous fear of 
selections. It meant great happiness to my sister and me when we were finally sent to a transport of 
labourers.  

We were travelling in a cattle car for 6 days on the hard planks without any straw. We arrived in 
Munich on 16th October. There were 550 Hungarian Jewesses in the labour camp. The camp was 
relatively nice, but it was hit by bombs, so it burnt down twice. Our provisions were good in the 
beginning, but after the air raids there was neither food, nor water. We worked at the Siemens 
ammunition factory. I worked in the day shift all the time. The work was not hard and the treatment 
was also tolerable. It sounded funny after Auschwitz that they called us “Miss” there. We moved 
together after the first bigger air raid, but after the second attack we had to leave the camp. 

They transported us to Holleiscen by train. There were already only four hundred of us. We did not 
work since only a small number of us got work in the factory. The food was poor and little. Our 
accommodation was acceptable: two of us slept in a bed. We were treated in a strict manner; the 
Aufseherins maltreated us all the time. 
They beat us with their hands and with sticks. They kicked us and jostled us without the smallest 
reason. The saddest event was that one of our woman companions fell victim to an air raid 2 days 
before the liberation. 

At last on 5th May the Americans liberated us.
Now I am going home, because I have heard that my father is at home. Only one of my sisters has 
survived in addition to him. I do not know yet what my father’s plans are, but if it is possible I 
would like to go to Palestine.