The aforementioned person presents the following:

I was a labour serviceman in Szolnok in 1944. I was summoned to Kunszentmárton and when I was travelling there, I witnessed the ghettoization of the Jews in Szolnok. I went in the town on a carriage, escorted by a guard, whom I asked to enquire if the Jews were also ghettoized in my hometown, Szentes. As I was waiting for him on the carriage, an SS man came to me, pulled me out of the carriage and gave me such a huge slap that I almost fainted, and took me into the barracks. I was beaten up and my coat was taken away. When I asked for the photograph of my family, which I had left in the pocket of my coat, the SS slapped me in the face again. I was put into the ghetto, from where I was taken away four times. They beat and interrogated me with beastly cruelty. On May 25 I was entrained and taken to Auschwitz.
Our journey was terrible. Two German soldiers came into the cars constantly and they were beating four labour servicemen with a club, until it was broken. We got no water at all, and we were starving.
We arrived in Auschwitz at 9 P.M., after four-day travel. They shouted at us to leave our luggage in the cars. Then they selected about 40 men and sent them to the right side. After that, they took us to the bath, where they shaved our head, we got striped clothes and were taken in the camp. One thousand and two hundred of us were in a block which could hold only 600 or 700. We were sitting all night. We were full of mud, because it was raining into the block. Our capo, a Gypsy, was very bad and cruel to us. Our food supply was 200 grams of bread and 20 grams of margarine a day, and a turnip soup at noon.
One day there was a selection in the Gypsy camp. They undressed 700-800 Gypsies and 20-30 Jews along with the ill who stayed there, and took them towards the crematoria. That camp was almost emptied. Another day they were looking for workers and those who felt strong enough had to report for work. However, it was rumoured that those who do not go to work would be gassed. Of course, I also reported and was taken to Trezbinic in a transport.
We worked in an oil factory in Trezbinic. Our foreman was a very cruel SS man, who beat to death 3-4 people every week. We were extremely weak and despite that, they beat us with a club for even the mildest offence. There had been English prisoners-of-war in the camp before were taken there and therefore it was clean and orderly. Our food supply was satisfactory, as well. However, we suffered much because of the hard work. We worked four and a half months there. One night our Lagerführer came and told us to dress immediately, because we would leave. They took us to Sachsenhausen that night.
We went on foot until we reached Sachsenhausen. We were put in quarantine there. One day a locksmith was wanted, and I reported for work. They took me to Ravensbrück.
In the beginning, I worked as a locksmith in Ravensbrück. Later, the workshop was closed and they had me carry logs. We could not get rid of the sadistic SS guards for a minute. They were chasing and beating us all the time.
The camp was evacuated in April and they took us to Buchenwald. During the journey of seven days we got no food. The SS men were shooting amongst us all along the way. I received two shots, one in my shoulder and another in my arm. I was taken in  hospital, where I was infected with typhus. I was liberated in the hospital. My condition is still so bad, that I do not even remember by whom and when I was liberated. I lied in bed unconscious for a long time and I regained my consciousness only weeks later.