The persons in question have given us the following information:

We were drafted for the labour service in June 1944. We were taken to Transylvania, where we 
built fortifications at various places. Our company commander was very good to us and late in 
August he allowed us to escape to Budapest. We received Swiss safe conducts and got in the labour 
service company of Tutaj Street. We went to work at the slaughterhouse from there. The work was 
not hard and we could go home every day; we were often allowed to sleep at home too.

On 27th November we were unexpectedly taken to Józsefváros railway station. Here we got 
entrained and the cattle cars were sealed. We had nothing to eat and we did not even get water. 
There were 80 people in our cattle car. We were travelling without food or drink for ten days. The 
cattle car was never opened during the journey. 

We were taken to Sopronbánfalva through Austria. The SS officers watching over us were ethnic 
Germans born in Hungary. They robbed us and beat us already when we arrived. They beat us all 
the time and they shot down whomever they wanted. We cut down a forest in terribly cold weather. 
We were housed in a cold barn. We were very cold most of the time. To eat we got 300 grams of 
bread and boiled beans once a day, but even that was little. People died because they got frost, or of 
typhus fever, of complete exhaustion, others were killed by the whips and weapons of the SS men. 
From among 1,100 people 540 survived.  

In the end of March they took us to Mauthausen, partly by train, partly on foot. We were not given 
anything to eat on the way. An SS officer hit my nose with an iron bar, so it broke right away. 
Blood was running heavily from my nose, I had to go on like that. 

In Mauthausen I was lying on the ground outdoors in the rain for 12 days, because there was no 
more room in the tents. Cadavers were lying all around me. There were Appells twice a day. An SS 
sergeant was continuously beating people. We received some turnip soup once a day. I was terribly 
weak, I thought I would die there. Yet I survived even the following march. We were marching to 
Günskirchen for five days. It appeared to me as if it lasted for weeks. I was tired to death and I was 
so weak that I could hardly drag myself. Again, we had nothing to eat on the way.  We ate grass 
and snails. 

Günskirchen was a death camp. So many people were crammed into a barrack that we could only 
sit on the ground with the legs pulled up for there was no more space. Food was distributed once a 
day, there was a horrible scramble for it. I was so weak already that I was not able to fight. I was 
sitting inside and I ate only when someone gave me a bite. I was on the verge of complete 
exhaustion when the Americans arrived.