The person in question has given us the following information:


I was deported from the Munkács ghetto. We arrived in Birkenau on May 18. I was immediately separated from my father, but I managed to stay together with my mother and sister. We were taken to the bath where our hair was cropped, our whole body shaved and all of our belongings were taken away. I could keep only my shoes and my glasses. I got ragged clothes in exchange for my good ones and I had no underwear. 
In Auschwitz I was assigned to block 19 of camp A. Our situation was tolerable there, since the block was very clean. We spent three weeks there, then we were taken to block 13 where we spent five weeks. Every so often Dr Mengele assembled transports, but we were never put on them. However after five weeks those remaining, including us, were transferred to another block and from there we were selected for a transport. We were taken to Geistlingen. In the beginning we were treated well here, since there were no women in the camp, only men, who treated us well. In two weeks female overseers arrived and from then on the treatment was stricter. After three weeks we were assigned to an ammunition factory. Our food supply was good. There were two roll calls a day. For three months we were supervised by Jewish block supervisors, then German female prisoners arrived and they beat us very hard and stole our food from the kitchen.
For a while there was no work in the factory, therefore there were four roll calls a day. The prisoners were assigned to working units in the morning and at noon; those who were not assigned lined up for roll call from morning until evening. Later 10 German female prisoners came, who beat us even more severely. We were starving intensely. If somebody stole a piece of potato, she was beaten until she bled and she did not get bread for three days. 
In April we had no food left. We picked grass twice a day and it was cooked for us. One day we went to pick grass to a part of the forest that we had not been in before and since we did not find edible grass, we begged the peasants to give us a few pieces of potatoes. We returned to the camp at 9 pm; the whole camp was impatient and the guards were sent out to search for us. The next day we had to stand in the rain from morning until noon. 
Due to the Americans’ approach we were taken to München-Allach. This was a men’s camp, so we often ran to the wire hoping we would see an acquaintance. We were guarded by female overseers; if they noticed a female prisoner near the men’s camp, they beat her up and locked her up in a standing cell. The female SS camp commander beat us very badly. Rumour had it that in two weeks we would be taken to Tyrol to be executed and we were actually entrained. We were standing in one place for three days; there was no toilet. If the camp leader was gone for a while, we could get off the freight car. Nearby there was a creek, but we were not allowed to bathe in it. Finally we left, but since they had nowhere to take us, we just travelled from one station to another, then we were taken back.
We stopped in Staltach on April 30, since we were told that the frontline is eight kilometres away and there was no place they could take us. At noon we heard gunshots and the guards were all hiding in the gutter. Suddenly two girls entered the freight car and told us that the commanders surrendered. We all started to cry happy tears and ran away from the station. There was a big campfire nearby and soon the Americans and the English arrived. I want to emigrate to Palestine and start a new life.