The above mentioned persons have given us the following information:

We were arrested on the street on March 20, 1944. We spent a couple of days in detention and then we were taken to Kistarcsa, where we met each other. When we arrived there, we had to stand in the yard in the sleet, then 120 of us were squeezed into one room. We stood erect the whole night.  We did not get any food on the first week. Later we got food packages. A policemen with the registry number 34125 beat up men and women if they dared to talk to each other. We were entrained on April 22. There were 80 deportees in one cattle car. We did not get either food or water for the travel. We were taken directly to Auschwitz.  

In Auschwitz we were deprived of all of our belongings and clothes. We were bathed and our hair was cropped. We spent three days here; all we did was lining up for roll call. 

In Wüstegiesdorf we were badly off.  The capos constantly beat us. Many prisoners were actually beaten to death. We were doing earthwork and constructed railroad lines and fortifications. Railroad construction was the hardest work. We had to carry heavy pieces of iron. Nobody could work here for more than six weeks; everybody got completely exhausted. I was the hairdresser of Lagerführer Albert Lutzheimer (E.M.). Once a Jew came in to report while he was being shaved. He said: “Be quick to tell me what you want, since I’m getting sick of your smell”.  One prisoner died after the other because of the hard work and the cruel treatment; approximately 25 percent died. The camp was evacuated on February 15. We were set off on foot, while being hit by constant air raids. We marched for a week and all we got to eat was five pieces of raw potato. We were entrained in Parschwitz and travelled for five days. Eighty of us were travelling in an open freight car without having anything to eat or drink. There were 270 dead in our transport when we arrived. When getting off, the dead were put onto a truck. I also put a friend of mine who could hardly walk onto the truck. An SS came up to me and said: “This truck carries only the dead”. He hit my friend in the head with his rubber truncheon and continued: “Now he can stay”. We marched three kilometres from the station. Many fell during this relatively short march.  We could not stop for a second; we trod on corpses. 

In Bergen-Belsen there were 400 of us in one barrack. We were overcome with lice. We spent two and a half days here; all we got for lunch was a litre of soup and 10 decagrams of bread.   

We cleared rubble at the Hildesheim railway station. Air raids were constant here and many prisoners died. We were treated cruelly: prisoners were beaten and murdered. A 16-year-old boy stole some food from the bombarded freight car and was caught. He got down to his knees and begged the Oberscharführer not to hurt him, since he wanted to live just a little longer. There was no mercy: the SS shot him. Those injured during the air raids died even if they had been just lightly wounded, since there was neither lint nor medical instruments. Even a little injury produced so much pus that it got completely infected.  A bomb splinter hit my leg (L. H.) and the wound was cut eight times under the most primitive circumstances. 

We were taken to Ahlem, near Hannover. We worked in a quarry, always on the night shift. There were 700 Jews from Lodz here, but by the time we arrived there only 300 were alive. A very weak friend of mine did not show up at the roll call one morning. The capo went into the barrack and hit him on the head with a three-legged chair. He died immediately. 

At the end of March we were driven further. We walked for two days, 30 kilometres a day without any food. We spent one of the nights in a barn. There were so many of us squeezed into that small space that by the morning we had found four trampled to death. Probably they were extremely weak and they were incapable of standing all night; they must have fallen and nobody noticed what had happened in the dark. We were also beaten while being on the road. We escaped on the third day. The SS noticed us and opened fire at us, but none of us was hit. We were hiding for three days until we met the American troops.