The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived under good financial circumstances. I had a house and enough money. Ungvár had about 10,000 Jewish inhabitants. Most of them were moderately well-off tradesmen, craftsmen and so on. After the German occupation a ransom was exacted from the community and the ransom was higher every week. It happened in such a way that the authorities summoned the people and those who did not show up were brought in. Captain of the police Dr Megay was a notorious Jew-eater. There were two ghettos set up in Ungvár. Previously it had been announced on bills which streets the Jews from the city had to move to. The Jews from the city’s environs were lodged in the ghetto set up in the brickyard. Colonel Zöldy, who previously took part in the mass murder in Újvidék, constantly inspected the ghetto and he whipped every Jew who fell into his hands. People were afraid of him and fled from him whenever he was approaching. We were constantly told that we would be taken to perform agricultural work in Hungary. The Jewish Council, including Dr László, Handelsmann and others, fulfilled its duties well, even though Zöldy was threatening to beat them to death all the time. The Gentiles were so happy with our troubles that they even made remarks when we were taken to the cattle cars. The Jewish police arranged the timetable for the departure of the transports. A transport of about 3000 people departed every week. I was assigned to the last one. Eighty of us were put into a cattle car and we got some water. Military gendarmes escorted us to Kassa where the train was taken over by the Germans. Then we realised that we were being taken to Germany. They opened up the cars for the first time in Polish territory. There were neither deaths in our car, nor attempts to flee I am aware of.
We arrived in Auschwitz on the afternoon of May 23. Prisoners in striped clothes received us at the station. Upon getting off, they separated the men and the women. We could see those who had been singled out being taken towards the crematoria. We could also see the flames and smoke of the crematoria. They took us to the bath where all of our belongings were taken away; we got some rag-like dresses in exchange. From there we were sent into a work camp. About 420 of us stayed in a block and two of us in one bed. Our daily food supply was 250 grams of bread, one litre of soup and some coffee in the evening. In the beginning we got Zulage twice a week, but later it was cancelled. I worked at a construction site as a mason for 12 hours a day. It was quite hard work. After that, in the evening we had to line up for roll call that lasted for one or two hours. We were being beaten with iron bars at work and therefore several people died there.
They started to evacuate the camp and I was put on a transport that was taken away first. Our journey to Stutthof lasted three days; we travelled relatively well. We got two loaves of bread or more precisely two-day rations of bread and Zulage for provisions. Forty-five of us were put into a freight car. We stayed only for four weeks in Stutthof. We did not even work there, because that was a quarantine camp. From there we were sent to Buchenwald. The journey lasted four to five days by train. Sixty to seventy of us were put into a car and we got very little provisions. During the last two days we ate nothing and therefore a lot of people died along the way, because their weakened body could not resist starvation.
In Buchenwald 700 of us were housed in a block in a work camp. Each of us had a bed and a good straw mattress. The food supply was satisfactory in the beginning. However, as the rations were gradually decreased, starvation became more and more extreme. They did not give us any more Zulage either. We worked at a construction site for 10 hours a day. About 40 to 50 percent of the prisoners died of starvation. I had grown so weak that I could hardly work. People were dying off at the workplace as well.
The American troops liberated us on April 11. From that time on we were provided with everything good. The starving people made a rush at the delicious food they had been unable to enjoy for a long time. Of course, that amount and quality of food did not agree with our stomachs, which had contracted because of starvation. Consequently a lot of people got ill and even died. I was also lying ill in the hospital in Buchenwald for six weeks. Then I spent a couple of more weeks there until my turn came to be put on a transport. I came home via Prague and Bratislava.
My plans for the future: first I go home.