The person in question has given us the following information:

In 1941, when the Hungarians came in, they deported many Ilosva Jews to Poland. In 1944, after the German occupation, the gendarmes were very brutal to the Jews, who hardly dared to walk the streets. When they went to the synagogue on Saturday, the militiamen shaved their faces. Therefore until Passover we did not even dare to go to the synagogue. Around April 10, one day after Passover, the gendarmes showed up at around 4 am and ordered us to get ready by 9 with a 50-kilogram luggage in the yard of the synagogue. Before they left, they took away our money and jewellery. We spent a night in the synagogue and the next day all of us were moved into the Ilosva ghetto. 
We spent eight days here, then one morning we were rounded up again. Of course we put on everything we could to save a few pieces of clothing. We were taken to the schoolyard and searched. All we could keep was a dress and underwear. From here we were taken to Munkács. We were driven to the Ilosva railway station; they beat us up on the way and put us beaten to a pulp into cattle cars. They grabbed 10 men from one of the cattle cars and told us that in case we did not surrender all the jewellery on us, they would kill them. Eventually they were put back into the car beaten to a pulp.  This is how we arrived at the Munkács brick factory. There were already 15,000 people crammed into it. Meanwhile extensive air raids hit us, so we were afraid; the gendarmes “consoled” us by telling us not to be afraid, since there were 16,000 “anti-aircraft Jews” in the brick factory. 
After three weeks we were entrained again and deported to Auschwitz. At the station the elderly and the children had to stand on the left and the young mothers were told to give their babies to the old. However some of them did not want to be separated, so they were made to stand on the left as well. We were sent to the right and taken to the bath. We were undressed completely and went to the bath with our shoes in our hands. Afterwards we were given a grey dress. If somebody was noticed having a good pair of shoes, she was deprived of them and given clogs in exchange. After the bath we were lined up in rows of five and the Slovakian girls kept on shouting: “Do you think you will get home? Look at the crematorium: that is where you’re going. Look at the smoking chimney: your parents and siblings are already burning there.” These were horrendous sentences. During the selection the SS told us that on Sunday we would meet our families, so we kept on watching out  for them; we did not want to believe what the Slovakian girls said, but unfortunately it was true, since we have not seen our families ever since. 
We were assigned to block 7; the Slovakian girls did not behave any better here. They made nasty remarks and treated us badly. They told us that when we were walking the fields and playing, they were working here and their family members were burning. 
In August we were put on a labourer’s transport to Geistling. For three weeks we could rest, we were treated well and the food was decent. After three weeks SS female overseers, five German female block leaders and 10 German capos arrived. They constituted the guard unit for 1000 girls. The food deteriorated too. We were debased to stealing turnips and potato and if one of us was caught doing so, she was beaten until she bled. In the beginning five of us, later 10 of us got a loaf of bread. We were working in the ammunition factory; we had to carry heavy pieces of iron: it was very hard. We had to handle some kind of toxic material and gas; if the liquid spattered onto the hand it burnt the flesh to the bone. One girl lost her sight and many lost a finger. We worked 12 hours a day, from 6 am to 6 pm in two shifts, alternating every eight days. Our daily rations consisted of coffee in the morning, one litre of soup at noon and half a litre of soup in the evening. The soup was watery and unsalted. 
Around April 20, when the Russian army got closer, we were taken to Allach. Four of us got a loaf of bread for the way, a slice of salami and a care package from the Red Cross. We travelled toward Tyrol for about six days. Intensive air raids hit us on the way; the freight cars were shaking. We were thirsty, but the guards did not want to give us water. 
One morning at Stahldach the Germans shouted into the freight car: “Are you still sleeping while the Americans are here?” We got off and saw prisoners rejoicing and the Germans surrendering. Our joy was immense: we could not believe that we were free and we would be treated as actual human beings. 
The Americans asked us about who had treated us badly, since it was time to pay them back. Those who treated us badly would be put at our mercy now. Of course the men grabbed the opportunity and beat those up who used to beat them. We spent a week in Sthaldach then we were taken to Königsdorf. We were under American control for three months. We were quite well off; we were vacationing at a beautiful place. 
We headed to Bratislava, I spent two weeks there too. For the time being I am staying in Budapest, since my sister, who arrived home earlier, was taken to the Budakeszi sanatorium with tuberculosis and she needs a longer treatment.