The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was taken away from the Swiss protected house at number 32 Pozsonyi Road to 10 Teleki Square together with my parents. I was separated from my parents there and since then I have not heard from them. 
The Arrow Cross searched us on December 2, which meant taking away from us everything that they could. Then in the evening they took us to the Józsefváros railway station to entrain us. However, after standing there about half an hour we went back to Teleki Square. We stayed there until December 4. During that period we were subjected to search twice. When they had already taken almost everything from everybody, they entrained us at the Józsefváros railway station on December 4, around 5 o’clock. The representative of the International Red Cross called into the car that we should not worry because we would be taken to a special camp, and they would exchange us for prisoners of war in Bergen-Belsen.
Our train was delayed at Ács for two days. At the border station in Hegyeshalom, however, the train did not stop, but went on directly to Zürndorf. A Hungarian officer handed us over to the Germans there. Forty people were travelling in each freight car until we reached Zürndorf, but after that 73 were put into a car. The Hungarians gave us nothing to eat; the Germans gave us food for the first time during the journey. We had to travel in sealed cars until then, but the Germans at least sometimes opened up the cars. The journey lasted 12 days. We went directly to Bergen-Belsen.
Upon our arrival we were taken into a tent-like building. We were terribly afraid that it was a gas chamber, but it was only the place where we had to put down our luggage. They checked them and gave them back to us the following day.
The countryside Jews had been taken there a few months earlier. They hated us for those few months and for the fact that we suffered less than them. They scornfully called us “the ladies from Budapest”. We, the women from Budapest, were put into a separate barrack. We did not have to work and our heads were not shaved either. That was really a special camp. There was no work, but we were starving. We were just lying on the bed all day, because we were extremely weak. If someone had given us a slight push with a finger we would have fallen.
The most tormenting experiences in Bergen-Belsen were starvation and the roll calls.
We were relatively clean. The women’s barrack in the Hungarian camp was the cleanest of all blocks. Despite that, we got infested with lice and got several illnesses. For instance, I got the measles and fell ill with diphtheria. We got mainly children’s diseases. All of us got diarrhoea and bladder infection was very common as well.
We were fed with promises. The told us that the roll calls were held only because we would be exchanged for prisoners of war. However, this kind of news was circulated only by the Jews themselves. One day I was moved into another barrack.
They set me off for Theresienstadt on April 9. A group had departed before and I went with the second one. In the meantime, 8000 prisoners arrived in Bergen-Belsen and we had to watch them marching into the camp. We were allowed to leave the camp only after that. Many of them collapsed in front of our very eyes.
We were to be entrained at night. Finally at 12:30 am they put us into freight cars, in which dead bodies of prisoners had already been lying. It was a so-called Dutch train, in which we travelled together with Dutch prisoners and later we were liberated together as well. Sixty people were in a freight car and the journey lasted 10 days. We were starving very much, because we had no food at all. Whenever the train stopped, we went to the villages to beg for food.
We were liberated at Trebitsch on April 23. We stayed there for two more weeks. We were set off for home in the first group. We covered 120 kilometres on foot and we reached a Russian camp. A committee of three arrived in that camp and they set us off for home. Sixty-three of us travelled together on a passenger train.