The persons in question have given us the following information: 




About 6000 Jews lived in Huszt; most of them were fairly well-off tradesmen and craftsmen. We had nothing to complain about, but after the Hungarian occupation the trade licenses of the Jews were cancelled and our situation was gradually deteriorating. They had already arrested a lot of Jews before the German occupation. After that it became even worse and just before Passover they rounded up everybody and closed them up in a ghetto. They boarded up the street gates and nobody was allowed to leave the ghetto. There were two ghettos in Huszt: one for the Jews of the town and another one for the Jews of the environs. In the latter there were about 3000 people. Notary József Bíró was a notorious anti-Semite: he was the one who hastened the deportations more than anybody. At first they took us into the city hall. Here they undressed all of us and took our jewellery, money and papers. After that they took us into the ghetto. We had a soup kitchen, but raw food was distributed as well and we could cook for ourselves. The ghetto was guarded by gendarmes and the internal order was maintained by Jewish police. We have not heard any objection to the activity of the Jewish Council, the members of which included Dávid Lazarovits, László Mauskopf and Neufeld. The Germans drafted the men for work. Rumour had it that we were ghettoised because we were unreliable and we would be taken to work to the Transdanubian region.
A few weeks later we were taken into the brickyard ghetto where all of our remaining belongings were taken away, except a few pieces of underwear, clothes and some food. They threatened to shoot down those who were reluctant to hand over their money, jewellery or gold. Hungarian soldiers were beating a tradesman named Winkler with a lath and when he was half dead, they shot him. Shortly after this we were entrained. One hundred of us were put into a cattle car. We got water and a bucket for the purpose of a toilet. Nobody died in our car and none of us attempted to flee either. The gendarmes blindfolded the commander of the car and threatened to shoot him if we did not hand over the gold, money and jewellery we still had kept. They escorted the train to Kassa and there the Germans took it over.
We arrived in Auschwitz three days later, on the second day of Pentecost. By order of Polish prisoners wearing striped clothes we left our luggage in the cars. After getting off, they separated the men and the women. They took us to the bath in groups of 500. There they took all of our clothes and boots, shaved our heads and disinfected us. All of us were given striped clothes and then we were counted and subjected to selection. We got a lunch there and after that they took us to Monowitz that is 18 kilometres away. On the way we had to run a few steps and then to go at walking pace again in turns. The guards threatened to shoot down those who could not keep the pace. An official from Huszt by the name of Nemes was a fat man and he collapsed. We wanted to help him, but the guards beat up severely everyone who attempted it. Monowitz was a working camp. Two hundred and fifty of us were housed in a block where everyone had his own bed with two blankets. Our food supply was one litre of soup, a quarter of a loaf of bread and a little Zulage. We got another bowl of soup in the factory, which we were building there. Polish prisoners had already been working there for three years. Our task was unloading machines at the railway station; it was very hard. We worked there for eight months, then we were ordered to retreat because of the advancing Russian troops. We were taken to Gleiwitz in January, but we spent only one night there and then we were sent to Buchenwald. We travelled for eight days in open freight cars, 120 people in each. We could only stand in there and we trampled to death those who collapsed. We got only a quarter of a loaf of bread and some Zulage for provisions. They threw out the dead bodies at a station. Three hundred thirty people from the transport died along the way. We got only a small slice of bread a day. However, we did not get any water. If someone tried to satisfy his thirst with some snow, he was shot dead. After our arrival in Buchenwald, we had to stand outdoors the whole night. The following day we were taken to the bath and then were housed in barracks. One thousand of us were put into a block, where 16 of us shared a bunk. Of course, we could only sit there. Plenty of people died from starvation, because we got only one-eighth of a loaf of bread and some soup every day. We told each other that we should leave that place because we would surely die if we stayed longer. We reported for work and we were put on a transport. They transported us to Langenstein near Berlin by train. There were already a lot of Russian prisoners. We were assigned to drill a tunnel in shifts; it was very hard work. Our food supply was one-eighth of a loaf of bread and some watery soup. Living on that food of very little calorific value we had to work 12 hours a day. We spent there three weeks, then the commander of our camp was ordered to send 180 people to Magdeburg where extra workforce was needed. There were exactly 180 people in our block and therefore all of us were set off by train. One hundred fifty were killed in an air raid on the way. At first the SS did not allow us to open the doors and leave the train. However, a few minutes later, when many of them had been killed as well, they opened up the cars and we rushed out. As soon as the pilots noticed the people in striped clothes running, they ceased fire and left. The guards rounded up the survivors and we continued our journey to Magdeburg. Upon our arrival the Lagerälteste reassured us that we would be provided with good food supply. We were working there for three months and our task was cleaning bricks. We spent Passover there as well, but afterwards the English were approaching the camp and the SS hastily abandoned us. They told us to follow them if we wanted. Before that, we had emptied the unguarded store. The prisoners pinched with hunger rushed for the food they had not been able to enjoy for a long time and many of them got ill because of eating to excess. After that, Volkssturm members took us further and lined up the prisoners on a football pitch, the men and the women separately. English troops started to shoot at us, because they were approaching from the side of the women who wore civilian clothes, so the soldiers thought we were enemy troops. By the time they realised we were prisoners, they had already killed 300 prisoners. Many of us were wounded, including the above-mentioned Mór Herskovics. We were walking around aimlessly from one village to another. In one village the women slept in a hayshed and we slept in an attic. We waited to be ordered where to go. The guards rounded up 600 people, because 400 had already fled. We rested a bit in a distillery in a village, and then we went on and soon we arrived in Sachsenhausen. There were 50,000 prisoners in that camp. Three days later the Lagerführer came in and ordered everyone who could move to go out. My older brother asked me to go, but I did not want to and therefore we stayed in Sachsenhausen. After the SS had left, the foremen took over the stores and from that on they gave us bread, margarine and salami plentifully. Two shells hit the block and many of us (including the above mentioned Lázár Herskovits) were wounded. The Red Army liberated us on April 26. They ordered us to leave the blocks, since - as they said - if the Germans learned we were there they would shoot at the buildings. From Sachsenhausen we went to Schmachtenhag, a camp six kilometres away. We stayed there for five weeks; we managed our affairs by ourselves along with other prisoners, French, Italians and Poles among them. By order of the Russian headquarters we were sent to Hänigdorf where we had a very good time too. Three weeks later we went to Prague with a transport and from there we came to Budapest via Bratislava.
Our plans for the future: we have four brothers in America, and we would like to go there as well.