The person in question has given us the following information: 

On October 23, 1944 I was taken to the field of the National Centre for High School Sport Clubs and I was assigned to company 98. Two hundred and fifty of us marched down to Csomád. We left the field of the National Centre for High School Sport Clubs at 1 pm and we arrived at the Megyer racecourse at 5 in pouring rain. Here we spent the night in the cashier and the next morning we left for Csomád on foot. We left at 10 and arrived there at around 5. 
Twenty five of us were accommodated in a cottage. The labour servicemen who were also there gave us their dinners; G-d bless them. They prepared our sleeping places and brought us milk and cigarettes. The next day we were taken to another part of the village.   One of the lieutenants sent us to work the next day, but the Arrow Cross guards told us that we did not have to work on that day. On that afternoon they robbed us of everything. 
Later they took us to a farm and from then on, we went to work from there. The working place was 10-12 kilometres away; we built fortifications for two weeks. 
Later we were taken to the Bécs Road brick factory in Budapest from where we marched to Zürndorf. We were entrained here on November 18 and arrived in Lanzberg (60 kilometres from Munich, Bavaria) on November 20. We were assigned to camp 11. All of our belongings were taken away and we rested here for two weeks. Our daily rations were as follows: coffee in the morning, soup at noon, coffee, a quarter of a loaf of bread,  and butter or cheese in the evening. Later we were taken to camp 2 where I was overcome with lice and fell ill with dysentery. I recovered from it, then I got arthritis and my glands became inflamed. After six weeks I was taken to camp 7. We arrived here on January 25, 1945 and were taken to quarantine. Three hundred sixty women and two thousand men stayed here; it was a camp for the convalescent. We were in quarantine for 11 weeks and during this time none of the women died, while 20-25 men died a day. When the quarantine ended, the men were replaced by 2000 Aryan prisoners, who treated us very well. They were supplying us trough the barbed wire fence. We were also disinfected in this camp. 
After Dr Blanke, the physician responsible for the selections, lifted the quarantine, the SS felt that their power is about to be over, so they did not send us to work. We had an Oberscharführer who worked with Dr Mengele in Auschwitz and killed a lot of people there. As if he had tried to compensate for his crimes, he paid special attention to hygiene and treated us well. Four women died during my whole stay in the camp. Dr Blanke was a determined SS murderer, who did away with everybody he could.
One day all prisoners were taken back to camp 11. We spent there 11 days; our rations were very bad, so we starved. The whole camp was set off again on April 24 and after three days of marching we arrived in Allach, near Dachau. This was a camp with 10,000 prisoners, including many Aryans. We arrived at this camp on April 26, and we would have died of hunger if the Aryan men had not thrown food to us, since the Jewish prisoners did not have any left. On the 28th the SS left the camp, but they came back on the morning of the 29th. At noon they left again and the Americans started to shell Allach, so we were taken to the shelter of the Aryan camp. 
The bombarding ended at 6 am on the 30th. There were 17 serious wounded and ca. 10 dead.  At 11 am troops of the American 7th Army entered the camp accompanied by the prisoners’ rejoice. They immediately gave us chocolate and cigarettes. After the liberation we were given substantial supplies. Shortly I fell ill with typhoid fever, but I was given outstanding treatment. After my recovery I was assigned to work in the American kitchen where I worked until June 19. 
On the afternoon I was taken to Feldafing and I was there until the homecoming.  
Unfortunately for now I am incapable of working, but eventually, of course, I would like to find a job. 
To my great pleasure after my homecoming I found my mother and my siblings, but my fiancé and his relatives have died.