The person in question has given us the following information:

The 11th of April, 1944, Jews were rounded up in Huszt and gathered in a house. Gendarmes 
and policemen were rude and nasty; they hardly gave us time for packing before they carried 
us into the ghetto. Supplies were provided by a public kitchen. Two weeks later, they took us 
into the brick factory of Huszt, where they searched everyone, seized all valuables and money 
and led us to the railway station, and entrained us. There were 95 of us crammed into a closed 
freight car. They gave us no bucket for the toilet, and we were not even allowed to get off to 
go to the toilet. It was hot, we were thirsty, and we got water only in Kassa where Hungarian 
gendarmes handed us over to the SS. 

We arrived in Auschwitz after four and a half days of travel. Polish prisoners got on train at 
the station and told us to leave the luggage in the cars: they would carry them later to our 
place. Men had to line up five in a row, while they were insulted. SS-men were crying and 
creating a great chaos. We were drowsy and tired after the long journey, we could hardly 
think, and were just clasping the hands of our relatives to stay together – only to be separated 
the more. I started walking with my parents and three younger siblings. My mother with the 
children got into the group of the elderly, I was sent among the young to the right side and my 
father among the men fit for work.

After selections they took us into the baths. I enjoyed the shower very much, it woke me up a 
little from drowsiness. They cut my hair off, gave me flimsy clothes which I wore later in 
both summer and winter. They took us into a block after the bath. The rain fell in and I lay on 
the cement floor. At 3 am there was already reveille. It was still completely dark when we 
reported for roll call. We had to stand for three hours during roll calls both in the morning and 
the afternoon, and often we had to stay on knees as a punishment. Once, there were selections 
and they selected me to be among the weak but later Dr Mengele called me back and looked 
me in the eyes and at my hands and I was then put into a transport.

The day after they took me into the baths, newly disinfected me, gave me back the same 
clothes and took me to the station where they entrained us and transported to Reichenbach.

We got into a labour camp in Reichenbach, and went out to work for a company producing 
radio lamps. We worked in two shifts, 12 hours a day. Treatment and rations were tolerable. 
Later, they took me from the camp of labourers into a concentration camp, where the SS 
treated us very badly, beat us all the time. We worked there until the end of February.

When the front got closer we had to set off on foot. They gave us a kilo of bread and we 
walked for four days and nights only with short pauses. After 32 hours of fasting we arrived 
in Trautenbach nearly dead. The first day when we arrived we got nothing to eat, only a loaf 
of bread the 8 of us the next day and a little warm soup in the evening, which was like water, 
and three pieces of cooked potatoes. We stayed there for three days before they entrained us. 
In the middle of February we travelled in open freight cars full of snow. We were cold; the 
wind blew and our dresses got frozen. We had no coat, just a blanket each. We stood there 
crouched and were shrinking from the great cold.

After 6 days of horrible journey we arrived in Pforta, next to Hanover. They took us into 
newly built camp, where we got blankets and pots. It was nicely clean but unfortunately we 
got very little to eat also here. At the beginning, 10 of us shared a loaf of bread, later 6 of us. 
The following day we had to go to work. We worked for the company Hammerwerke 
producing radio lamps seven storeys below the ground. We had to cross a big hill and walk 
three kilometres from the camps to the plant. We worked here for 4 weeks before we left for 
Fallersleben.

We stayed in Fallersleben for 3 days before we carried on towards Salzwedel, where 
Americans liberated us a few days later, the 14th of April, 1945. The Unterscharführer said 
that he had received an order to execute us but he failed to obey.