The person in question has given us the following information:

I was dragged away from my flat to the Óbuda brick factory. We spent a couple of days there. We did not do anything except for lining up the whole day and being selected: armament factory workers this way, seamstresses that way; those having a Swedish safe conduct this way, those whose documents were torn up that way. We thought this selection actually meant something, but when one morning we all had to line up and go (except those fortunate ones who had good safe conducts) we saw that the whole process was pointless. We dragged ourselves along in endless lines on the Vienna highway. There were very old people among us dragged out from their Buda flats.  We spent almost all nights outdoors in the pouring rain without any shelter above our heads. We marched to Zürndorf where it was the German SS that gave us normal food for the first time on the way: thick soup, well prepared. Our data were recorded and we were entrained. The next day we arrived in Sopron and then we were taken further to Kópháza. There the Organisation Todt took over us. We lived in barns; there were 95 of us in one barn. For two days we did not get a hot meal. Since many of us were rounded up on the streets, many did not have shoes, because they left home in sandals and those had been worn out during the march.  They got clogs. In the beginning food was completely fatless, but later it improved. Digging trenches was extremely hard and we suffered a lot from the cold too. 
We left for a horrible journey on March 28. At Loretto the SS attacked us, beat us up and shot at us. Young girls were dragged away to be raped and then returned to the group.   Then we went to a quarry where they rounded us up. As we were lying there, the SS men amused themselves by throwing rocks at the sleeping crowd.  After a long walk we arrived in Mauthausen. 
We spent two weeks here under the most terrible circumstances.  There was dirt and lice everywhere and nothing to eat. We could hardly get any water. After a three-day-long march (during which we did not get any food whatsoever) we arrived in Günskirchen. The situation there was even worse then in Mauthausen: the food scarcer and dirt deeper. But thank G-d we did not have to suffer long, since the Americans liberated us. By that time we had lost a lot of weight and we recovered very slowly.