The person in question has given us the following information:

We lived in Botfalva in the area of Ungvár, in a little village where there were only 15-18 
Jewish families. We had a grocery, which was seized when Germans invaded the country and 
was given to a Christian family. Someone denounced my uncle, who lived with the family. 
They took him to the headquarters of the counter-intelligence, where he was tortured so 
much that he got into hospital. Before they moved us into the ghetto we had to hand over 
money and jewellery under threat of beatings. The 12th of April, they took us into the ghetto 
of Ungvár. The designated place for the Jews of the area was the brick factory. We were not 
allowed to go into the street. They would beat you up seriously if you tried to escape to obtain 
some food and they captured you. Six weeks later, they took us to the railway station. 
Gendarmes gravely insulted us on the way: they kept shoving and kicking us. Several of the 
elder and weaker people were unable to bring their luggage. If they fell behind they gave them 
blows. It was distressing to watch how elderly people were insulted.

At the station they put us in freight cars. The doors were locked and windows had gratings 
while there were 90 of us in a freight car, together with the old and children. We were terribly 
crammed, it was stifling and we were very thirsty. If we asked gendarmes for water they 
started shooting around, so we did not even dare to approach the window. 

After three days of travel we arrived in Auschwitz. I was with my parents and 5 brothers and 
sisters. They divided us into as many separate parts as many as we were. I was selected for the 
men’s group. They took me into the baths, cut my hair off, and gave me striped prisoner’s 
clothes. They moved me from one camp into another. During the 7 months I spent in 
Auschwitz I was in 4 camps: Camp A, S, D and E. All of them were terrible.

Once, Dr Mengele came to do selections in Camp E. He selected me for the group of the 
weak. There were 600 of us selected as unfit for work. They took us into a block and locked 
us up. During the night when the guard was sleeping seven of us boys pushed the back door 
open, so we managed to break free. There was a storekeeper from a nearby village, who let us 
hide in the store till the morning. They noticed we had escaped already during the night. All 
Blockältsters were looking for us but they did not find us. The next day I sneaked into a 
labour camp unnoticed. This is how I managed to avoid crematorium.

At the end of November, I left Auschwitz in a transport of labourers for Sachsenhausen, 
where we stayed for six weeks in quarantine, and carried on towards Liebersee six weeks 
later. There were 1,400 of us here. They led us into a new camp, where they treated us very 
badly. We did not work; they just beat us and made us starve, and when at the end of February 
Russians got closer we had to leave on foot.

We walked for 6 days. We had received two kilos of bread and 150 grams of margarine for 
the trip and they took us back to Sachsenhausen. By the time we got there, there were only 
900 of us. Many died of exhaustion and hunger, and many were shot.

We stayed in Sachsenhausen only for 4 days before they entrained us again, 90 of us in a 
freight car. The SS beat us hard in the cars because they did not let us sit down, we had to 
stand during the entire journey without any food. We arrived tired and exhausted in 
Mauthausen.

First, they put us in quarantine in Mauthausen, later, they set up a camp of tents and crammed 
all arriving Jews into it. In the tents we slept on the ground, some of us did not even have a 
blanket; we lay there cluttered up. We starved. 12 of us shared a loaf of bread a day, and we 
got 8 decilitres of soup. We stayed there for 4 weeks before we continued towards 
Günskirchen. We walked for 3 days crossing a forest. We got nothing to eat for the trip. We 
tore off leaves of trees and were happy if we found one or two snails. I was so weak and 
exhausted that I wanted to fall behind but when I saw my comrades, who were shot dead lying 
there every ten steps I regained my energies and dragged on my body. 

In Günskirchen it was even worse than in Mauthausen. 

There were around 16,000 of us in the camp, 1,200-1,400 in a block. The SS beat us. Once an 
SS-man came in and walked to the other end of the block and cried from there that everyone 
had to be in the courtyard in a minute. The block had a single exit and while 1,500 people 
were getting out he was beating us with a thick club. We starved. We received 150 grams of 
bread and half a litre of soup a day. When lunch was brought to us we ran for food like 
starving beasts beaten by the crops of the SS. Typhus spread in the blocks and we were 
swarming with lice. They wanted to execute us; they had a written order. When Americans 
liberated us the 4th of May, 1945, I was lying with typhus and with high fever.
 
The sick were immediately moved into hospital and I recovered after 6 weeks of proper 
hospital care. I was in the hospital of Hörsching. One day, people from Czechoslovakia were 
put on trucks. As I already felt better I applied for a place and arrived in Budapest after 10 
days of travel. I will stay for a few days in the institute of "DEGOB" before I go home to look 
for my family.