The person in question has given us the following information

We got off the train in Auschwitz and we were separated from our parents and siblings right on the 
spot. We were taken to the bath where they cut our hair and took all our clothes away. They gave us 
a dress and a shirt instead of our own clothes and, dressed like that, we were taken to block no. 32. 
We slept that night in the block. We did not get anything to eat on the day of our arrival. On the 
next day we were lining up for roll call from morning till night. We were given some bread in the 
evening and then we were taken to block no. 21. We were woken up at dawn and we were lining up 
for roll call till 8 o’clock in the morning, and again for two hours in the afternoon. We were counted 
at the Appell and if the number was not correct, we had to kneel as a punishment. 
In the block, 14 of us slept on one berth with two blankets. We were often selected; Dr Mengele 
and Drechslerka did that. We were all very much afraid when they appeared, because we could 
never know who would be selected for the crematorium. I was crying day and night because I 
did not know what happened to my parents. In the beginning I was told that we would meet 
them on the next Sunday and then we would be able to talk, but unfortunately that did not 
happen. Later we got to know that those who had been separated from us and had been sent 
to the left side had all been taken to the crematorium. We were also told that only the oldest 
people had been taken to the crematorium, but the truth was that those who had been put on the left 
side had been sent to the crematorium. 
There we were put in a transport and we were taken to Görlitz. Much to my pleasure everybody 
received a spoon, a plate and a cup, two blankets and a separate bed; we already felt like human 
beings. We were selected to do different sorts of work on the same day. I was assigned to work at 
the “Vumak” factory and I made service parts for airplanes. We worked for 12 hours in two shifts. 
In the beginning we got bread cut into four or five pieces, later it was cut into 10 pieces. Apart from 
the bread we got two plates of soup a day. The masters treated us nicely in the factory. The work 
was not too hard, and we worked as much as we wanted. We could wash, and we could wash our 
clothes in secret in the factory but it was also possible to do it in the camp. Nobody was ill among 
us. We were very seldom punished: for example if somebody did not want to work, she was 
punished by 16 strokes and her hair was cut. But, as I have already said, that happened rarely. When 
the frontline was moving closer we were taken to Oberennersdorf on foot; we got boiled potatoes to 
eat on the way and once we got bacon too. They did not give us any food on the following two days, 
but we got that afterwards. 
Meanwhile the frontline became calmer and we returned to work at our old place of work. Then we 
made tank-piercing weapons. We were treated the same way as earlier, only we got less to eat and 
we could hardy wait for our liberation. On a Sunday one of the Aufseherins came in the factory and 
told us: “Children, the time you waited for so much has come, you are free now“. She asked us to 
go with her to English captivity, because the Russians are so wild, they are like animals. We did not 
go with her, but almost all of us escaped from the camp. 11 partners of mine and me moved to a 
private place and 2 days later, on Tuesday morning the Russians liberated us.