The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on October 4, 1943 in Püspökladány. A couple of days later they took me to Görgényoroszfalu, in Transylvania. I stayed with the company there for three months, and then they brought back 80 people, including me, to Budapest. I worked at the Ferihegy airport until September 1. That day they took me to Naszvad, in Komárom County. I worked there for two or three months. We built an airport there as well. Our company commander was not bad, but the commander of the airport treated the labour servicemen very cruelly. His name was Dr Lajos Szó. He was beating us and he deprived us of our food rations. Whatever our company commander told him, he did not care about that. There were Germans at the airport too and he probably wanted to impress them.
On October 15, 1944 it was announced that we could go wherever we wanted. However, on October 18 the Arrow Cross arrested me in Komárom and locked me up. The Germans and Dr Szó himself were beating me all night long. My face swelled and I could not stand up. Finally, thanks to my commander, I was sent back to my company.
In the meantime my parents acquired a Swiss protective document for me. They stayed at the Swiss Embassy. They sent me documents and a passport by an Arrow Cross fireman, but in spite of those, I was not released. My parents tried it three times and once the Swiss ambassador himself came for me by car, but all these efforts were in vain.
From Naszvad we were taken to Vágfarkasd around January. Probably influenced by the political circumstances, Dr Szó behaved in a different way. Unless he was in the company of German officers, he returned the salutation of the labour servicemen.
In the middle of March we were ordered to go to Magyaróvár. From there they took us to Szombathely. One night around the end of March they set us off for Germany. We were going for 18 days without any food or water. A lot of labour servicemen were shot down. We arrived in Mauthausen. I dislike speaking about my life there. To make it short, it was horrible. They were beating us severely. There was a sergeant who was particularly brutal. The food was scarce and very poor. Totally weakened, we were dragged to Günskirchen around the middle of April. The American troops liberated me there on May 4, 1945. They took me to hospital in Hörsching. I received the best treatment and nursing there.