The person in question has given us the following information: 

I began my labour service in March 1943 in Szentendre. From there I was placed to Szentkirályszabadja and then Bor, Serbia. 

In Bor I was put into the camp named Berlin. I was on the medical staff, so I was better off than the others. The others were trussed up every so often for the smallest “mistakes”. They were tied up in a way that their feet did not even touch the ground, but they were just spinning in the air. This was a terrible torture. I had some medicine that was sent to me from home illegally and with those I helped as much as I could. 

I left the camp with the first wave of evacuation. At Chervenka a part of the boys were taken away to be killed, another part to be tortured. I remained unnoticed, since I was lying in the twilight and stayed there with a fellow of mine, an engineer called Langer.  They completely robbed us. They told us to collect such and such exact amount of rings, watches, etc., otherwise they would shoot many of us. We collected what they wanted and they still shot a lot of labour servicemen. We continued the march in thin cloths, deprived of everything. 

In Baja I was taken to hospital with a wound on my leg. From there I was taken to the military hospital of Pécs, since Baja was occupied by the Russians. Later I was transferred to Budapest. I was taken to the riding hall from where I was set off for Germany. 

We got off the train at Oranienburg. We spent two weeks there and then we were taken further to Ohrdruf. 

I was assigned to the medical staff in Ohrdruf. It was my responsibility to take the sick to  hospital. Once I took there six sick prisoners and the SS physician called me to account for bringing that many. I told him that they were all seriously ill, so he told me he would examine them. He picked up a broomstick - I was surprised to see this new type of medical instrument - and went up to the patients. One of the boys complained that he was unable to stand on his feet. The physician ordered him to walk and told him he would prove that the boy was able to walk: he hit the boy’s leg with the thick broomstick a couple of times, but the patient still could not walk.  The doctor beat him up severely, so eventually in horrible pain he started to walk. The next day he had to go to work.  

When there was an air raid alert, there were no medical consulting hours, therefore I could not hold back the patients: everybody had to go to work, even if they were half dead. 

Our clothes and all of our other belongings were taken away as we arrived and they gave us prisoner’s uniforms. We were chased out to work in those even in the coldest winter. 

Our mood was very bad. Many prisoners died and this increased general pessimism. The boys did not believe that they would survive this suffering. I knew I would. I was not afraid and I believe that I can attribute my survival to my strong will. 

After two months I was taken to the camp set up in neighbouring village of Espenfeld. There I was not assigned to the medical office; we had to build a tunnel for ca. one and a half months. We were lying in the tents without blankets and any kind of disinfection, therefore we were overcome with lice. 

From there we were set off for Buchenwald on foot. We were lodged in an aircraft repair workshop there. We were teeming with lice and we had no food. After two or three days we went to Flossenbürg where we spent a day and then continued our travel towards Dachau. 

I was on a transport of 1200. Approximately 80 people travelled in a sealed freight car. At Zeiss the train was hit by an air raid, but we were not allowed to get off. After the air raid I bandaged the wounded. Ca. 400 prisoners and 15 SS died. I got the bandage from the SS, but I helped only my fellows, not the SS. One of them was lying there wounded: he was whining and begging me to go there and bandage and help him. I shouted back that I was coming and then I went to help the Jews. The bombs destroyed the locomotive and the freight cars, so we had to march. Ninety percent of my fellow prisoners died on the way; we were weak and worn out and those who could not march were shot dead. 

Some of us stayed alive. We were locked up in a warehouse at the village named Stammesried. When we were released, we saw American tanks arriving.