The persons in question have given us the following information:
We were deported from the ghetto of Szatmár. 100 people travelled in a freight car. Two 
people died in our car before we reached Kassa. I asked a gendarme to give us water. He 
wanted 1,000 pengős for a bucket of water. We only had 800 pengős, so he did not give us 
any. I was one month pregnant. Still in the freight car my husband suggested that I should 
report that I was pregnant as soon as we arrived so that I received better treatment and 
provisions. I did not report, and not because I knew what dangers it implied but because I 
wanted to stay together with my friend who I loved very much.

We arrived in Auschwitz. As soon as we got off train they separated me from my husband and 
my mother, who were sent to the other side, while we had to move on. We passed a wire 
fence and saw women in a piece of cloth, bald-headed waving to us. I thought they were 
surely mad who were gathered there. I did not think I would look the same an hour 
later.

They took us into the baths, where they undressed us and seized all our clothes, cut our hair 
off, depilated our entire bodies, and led us into a block. I went to see the block leader and told 
her I wanted to meet my mother. She replied that only the sick and pregnant might go there. I 
said I was pregnant. She said I should report later when she summoned pregnant women. 
When I learnt that pregnant women were sent into gas chambers I ran away into 
another block, where they did not know about my condition.

I kept staying in hiding for six weeks. Meanwhile, there were three selections but I managed 
to avoid all.

Six weeks later, they announced that cooks were needed. I applied as I thought I may 
spontaneously miscarry as I believed one had to raise numerous and heavy stuff in the 
kitchen. This way I ended up in another lager where I had to work very much. I very 
frequently went out at night and saw the flames of crematorium. I kind of felt the fire with 
my body but I was not scared any more. I had become good friends with death.

Transports started to leave. I was six and half months pregnant and one could very well 
see it. I did not hope I might survive any more: I was prepared for death. I agreed with a 
Jewish woman doctor that she should do something with me.

The following night, when they blacked out, girls surrounded the infirmary to signal at once if 
anyone came. I got 9 injections, and they opened me up and took my mature, beautiful 
daughter. Next morning there were selections in the infirmary. When I got to know it I got up 
and ran away with a fresh wound only made a few hours before. I did around 150 steps in 
order to avoid Dr Mengele.

The 18th of January, I set off in a transport towards Ravensbrück. We went on foot. Corpses 
were lying on both sides of the road. We continued by train. 120 people travelled in a freight 
car; we were terribly crammed. I felt I could not endure. I begged the SS to shoot me but he 
would not. I wanted to commit suicide but they blocked me.

In Ravensbrück I got into one of the wrong blocks. There was no work to do but idleness was 
perhaps even worse than working. We became full of lice.

Two months later, I arrived in Neustadt-Glewe with a transport. This was an aircraft factory 
but it did not much function any more. 

We got very little food and became extremely weak. I had to do the cleaning. We had the 
opportunity to bath. Three of us could lie on a table. This was a great advantage as we did not 
have to lie on the floor where 120 people lay around.

The 2nd of May, we were liberated.