The person in question has given us the following information:

     There were 120 religious, large Jewish families living in Alsóneresznice.  They were chiefly timber merchants, many of them were poor. I was a weaver. I had my own workshop; I had 10 knitting machines and three sawing machines. I had my own house, garden and cows: we were well off with my wife and three small children. 

Antisemitism started after the rule of Volosin and continued under the rule of the Hungarians.   In 1941 I was deported to Galicia, but I escaped and came back after six weeks. The Hungarian border guards sent me back again, but my second attempt to escape back was successful.  

In 1944 the Hungarian gendarmerie issued and executed the orders in the cruellest way. Members of the Jewish Council Simon Petényi and Béla Bálint fought for us without avail. On April 18 house searches were conducted and all the money, food and valuables were taken away. Later we were taken to the Mátészalka ghetto by train, escorted by gendarmes. We could carry only a small luggage; the property we left behind was looted by the local Christian population. There were ca. 20,000 Jews in the ghetto surrounded by a wooden fence. Most of them stayed outdoors in stables, in the fields, in tents into which the rain fell. In the ghetto we were supplied by the soup kitchen of the Jewish Council. We starved a lot, since we were trying to save up food for the travel. We were told by the authorities that we would do agricultural work in Kisvárda. We believed this, nevertheless 50 young boys escaped from the ghetto. I did not go, since I did not want to leave my family behind.  

The Hungarians deported us to Kassa. We were allowed to take only a small amount of food and a few pieces of clothing. We left most of our luggage in Mátészalka: a 300-metre-long warehouse was packed with formerly Jewish-owned items. There were 100-120 people in one cattle car, we could hardly stand. There were several deaths on the way, since many could not endure the terrible circumstances. In Kassa we realised that we would be taken to Poland, but the cattle cars were sealed.  

The transport arrived in Birkenau where we heard a terrible noise. The Poles told us that Hungarians were being burnt alive. They dug pits and pushed people into them without gassing them first. Those sent to the crematoria were given bread and margarine and they were told that they would go to work. They were allowed to bathe with soap and towels and then they were gassed. 

Obersturmbannführer Kadok selected us: he sent the able bodied to the left and those doomed to die to the right.  

We were transported to Warsaw where we stayed for 3 months. When the Russians were approaching the city, an order arrived from Auschwitz that all the prisoners had to be executed. Eight hundred Jews were killed. An order came from Dachau to redeploy labour force there and to transport us to Mühldorf. We were set off: first we marched for 120 kilometres and then we were entrained.  We got salty canned food to eat, but no water; it is terrible to even think of those who drank their urine due to the tormenting thirst.  Those who wanted to drink from the river were shot dead. Ten to twelve boys died like this; those who were unable to march were also killed.  I worked eight months in Mühldorf as a cement worker: we offloaded freight cars and built bunkers. 

I worked the nightshift and carried at least 200 bags full of cement weighing 50 kilograms every night. While working we were chased and beaten by the men of the Organisation Todt. Our rations consisted of one litre of watery soup. 

The American troops liberated us on May 2. We received medicine and first-class food supply from them. We were given financial aid in Bratislava and Budapest by the Joint. 

Now I will go home to get our stuff that has been left and then – as an old Zionist – I would like to go to Palestine. I wanted to emigrate earlier, but the Hungarians came in and did not let me do it. Unfortunately I am alone, my wife and my children were killed in Auschwitz. I want to start a new life in Zion.