The person in question has given us the following information:

I started my labour service in Jászberény on June 4, 1944. After three weeks I was taken back to Budapest, then I was sent to Budatétény. Here I worked in the warehouse of a German anti-aircraft unit, but I went home to sleep. On the night of November 4 an Arrow Cross man and policemen dragged me away from my flat that was in one of the protected houses. I was taken to the Tattersaal and then to the Dohány Street synagogue. The next day we were set off for Mosonmagyaróvár via Piliscsaba. It took 11 days and all we got was a bowl of hot meal every second day, so we were terribly hungry. We slept outdoors everywhere and we did not know if we suffer more from the hunger or the cold. From Mosonmagyaróvár we were taken to Zellendorf, where we were handed over to the Germans. They took all of our belongings and put us into cattle cars. We travelled in closed cars for three and a half days without food and water until we arrived in Neuengamme.  

We spent only four days in Neuengamme; later I was selected for a transport and was taken to Hamburg together with 250 craftsmen from Budapest. 

In Hamburg all 250 of us worked in a shipyard; later 60 men were added, so there were 310 of us working there. Two hundred thirty-three had been killed by the time of the liberation: they perished due to fatal exhaustion and beating. We were supervised by the Wehrmacht; the Dutch foremen and capos beat us constantly without any particular reason. The work was very hard too: we worked from 5:30 am to 4-6 pm (until dusk) and we had only 30 minutes lunch break. We were constantly beaten while working. People were killed by this and the hunger. In February I fell ill with serious kidney insufficiency, but medical treatment was out of the question. 

As the frontline got dangerously close, we were set off for San Posten on April 8. We walked and we did not get anything to eat or to drink. After a week of marching we arrived in San Posten on April 15. I collapsed here again and until April 28, i.e., the English liberation, I lay in bed. Almost all of the 75 comrades still alive were sick, therefore in a few days another 51 perished. Altogether 24 of us survived.