The person in question has given us the following information:

I was hiding in Kápolnásnyék with fake Christian identity papers, but on June 5 of last year the gendarmes arrested me and took me to the Székesfehérvár brick factory, which was the local ghetto. After robbing us of everything we had, they entrained us and set us off for Germany on June 14. Eighty-one of us travelled in a cattle car: children, old people and the sick altogether. All we got for the three-day-long trip was 40 decagrams of margarine. The SS guards were constantly blackmailing and threatening us; they shot down three or four people under the pretext that they had gone mad. 
After arriving in Auschwitz we were selected: of the 2800 people in our transport only 300 men were found capable of working. These, including me, were sent to the right; I do not know the fate of the others. 
I was taken into the so-called Gypsy camp where 1200 people were crammed into a barrack, so it was impossible to lie down and sleeping was out of the question. The barrack was loathsomely dirty: mud and filth covered everything. We were not allowed to wash ourselves or to go to the bathroom; the three weeks I spent there were unimaginably terrible. 
I was taken to München-Allach (three kilometres from Dachau) on a transport. We were transported by train and it took three days to get there. Here we were assigned to small working units; this is how I was sent to the BMW factory where we carried cement from morning until night. This work was extremely hard: we worked for 10-12 hours a day, many times outdoors and the guards brutally beat us. Many prisoners died due to fatal exhaustion. Until the fall we were provided with decent amount of food, but later the supply gradually deteriorated, so by the end our daily rations consisted of only sugarless coffee and some watery soup.
We were evacuated at the beginning of April, when the frontline got threateningly close. We were put into open freight cars, then they wired up the top of the cars, so we could not stand up and we spent the whole journey crouching.  Hardly any food was given for the 25-day-long trip. The number of daily deaths was radically increasing. The train was pulled up and down aimlessly until the liberating American troops arrived next to Stalltau (near the Swiss border) on April 30.