The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was serving in labour service company no 106/12 in Debrecen, when in 1943 the hay storage burst into flames. We were blamed for it, therefore the whole company was sentenced to death. We were immediately set off as a punishment company to Ukraine in December. We went to Proskurov where we replaced the company that had been serving there for a long time.

The commander of the company was Lieutenant Sándor Zelinka from Kispest. A baker called Frici was in charge of drawing rations and there was a lance corporal, a villain named Filo. This latter one shot a boy. All of them treated us terribly. When the retreat began, a bearded lieutenant named Szalay became the commander of the four companies. He ordered to shoot anyone lagging behind. A boy from Püspökladány, called József Spitzer, dropped his coat by accident and lagged behind five or six steps to pick it up and to put the coat on his rucksack. He was shot down.

I was the company physician. Even though the company sergeant major was sympathetic to us, I could not help my brothers-in-arms, since I was not even able to go to the rear in case of emergency. In the other company behind me, two boys were shot and buried. Probably they were still living.

We received an entrainment order, so we were entrained. On October 5 we arrived in Kunszentmárton. Here and even back in Ukraine we were constantly getting mail from camps near Vienna. I was informed that my parents were there. Maybe they just tried to reassure me, but if I had not received these information, then I would have escaped and would not have let them deport me to Germany. But since we were told that we would go there, we thought we might be able to do something for our families there. Back then we did not know what camp life meant, and we thought we would manage to get out of the camp somehow and to look for our family members, get some food for them and everything they needed. We made up our minds to go and none of us escaped on the way. 

As our train was passing Wienerneustadt we saw a little camp next to the railroad track surrounded by barbed wire. The inmates of the camp were chiefly women. They shouted that they were from Debrecen and Szolnok. We threw some food out of the windows for them.

Experiencing this, we were sure to find our relatives, since we were told that we would go near Vienna and build fortifications there. We were reassured and we stayed together in the cattle car. Arriving in Dachau we woke up from dreaming. There we realised that we had not been brought near Vienna, nor was it allowed to look for our family. We were prisoners sentenced to die. We arrived in Dachau on November 11. We were very thirsty, but we did not get any water. We had plenty of food, but we were unable to eat, since our throats were dry because of the thirst. We were standing in the roll call area and eating snow. Our belongings were confiscated and we got civilian clothes. After five days we were moved to Mühldorf.

The first week we worked in the potato fields. We had to walk 20 kilometres to and from the working place in the morning and in the evening. Our daily rations consisted of four pieces of rotten potatoes and half a litre of soup. Reveille was at 3:30 am; we had to line up for roll call until 6 am. If somebody was missing at the evening roll call, we had to stand there until 10 pm. 

There was no companionship in the camp. Everybody fought for his own life. If somebody managed to steal some potato peels, he ate it up alone. However there were smaller circles of friendship. I had two friends with whom I ate and I stole things; we even ate my boots together. When it was cold, we lay under the same blanket.

If you shared blankets with somebody, then you shared your food with them and all that you were able to acquire. That was all the companionship developed in the camp.   

Women working in or around the kitchen tried to appease our tormenting hunger by giving us some potatoes, cabbage or anything they could get. I was apathetic: I never even went to the barbed wire of the women’s camp. The boys came to me and had me extract their gold teeth; they exchanged it for food and gave some soup or bread to me. They gave me some from theirs. I told them that the Blockältester was ready to give food for gold teeth, thus I got some food from the Blockältester as well. 

Around the end I grew really weak and I was taken to the block for the convalescent. They did not even give out lunch there, only some soup once a day with four pieces of potato in it. 

The camp was evacuated as the Americans approached. I was put on a transport from the convalescent block.  

We were travelling in cattle cars. At one of the stations we were informed about the liberation. Mass plunder broke out; the cattle cars were stormed. In an hour the police and SS men showed up and shot many people. We went back to the cattle cars. At Tutzing the SS fled. On the morning of April 30 the American tanks arrived. We were very happy; the boys ran to meet the Americans. I weighed 47 kilograms and I was not able to walk. I crawled to the hospital car and somehow managed to get on. They filled out my hospital referral and asked about my problem only afterwards. Thus I was taken to the Tutzing hospital, but after a day I was kicked out and I had to go back to the hospital car. On May 5 I was transferred to the hospital in Feldafing. The Americans healed me there. When I came out, I joined a Romanian transport and came to Budapest.

When I left, there were 500-600 Hungarian Jews in the Feldafing hospital.