The persons in question have given us the following information:

We joined the labour service company in Nagybánya on 17th April 1944. Two weeks later we were 
taken to Nagykáta. We were at a distribution group there, and soon they took us to Horthy-liget. 
There we worked in an aeroplane factory for 4 weeks. We were treated quite well, but the 
provisions were extremely little. From Horthy-liget they took us to Csepel; we had to march there 
with a full equipment in heavy rain. Luckily we arrived there within half a day.  

We worked in the Weiss Manfréd factory. We carried heavy iron bars and pushed trolleys. The 
labour service guards treated us in a humane enough way. Our 1st lieutenant procured Swiss safe 
conducts for the whole company, and we spent two weeks in Pest. From there we went to Dinnye, 
still on foot. It was an eight-day long trip; we were marching with full equipment day and night, 
there was no mercy for us even in the heaviest rain. There we were handed over to the Todt leaders, 
we dug trenches under their supervision. We worked eight hours a day. We were given almost 
nothing to eat, only little rations of boiled vegetables were distributed to us in the evening, that 
made up our provisions for a day.  

We were housed in wooden barracks, which had no windows, we lived always in complete 
darkness. We spent 3 weeks there; they took us along when the Russian troops were approaching. 
We must not have fallen behind, they shot dead those, who did that. A large number of people fell 
behind and on top of that, we had to carry the ill ones. After about a week of marching, we arrived 
in Mauthausen. There were about 200 of us.

We worked under SS supervision in a quarry in Mauthausen. The work was very hard, because we 
had to carry enormous stones, being pushed and beaten all the while. An SS sergeant called Weber, 
he had one arm, shot 50 people before our very eyes without the smallest reason. He entertained 
himself with flinging pieces of bread high in the air, which, of course, made the starving mass 
threw itself on it. He used these tumults to beat people to death. He even broke the head of a 
comrade of us, so he spent two weeks under medical treatment in hospital. When we asked the 
leader of the camp for shoes and he explicitly refused our request I decided to escape, and so I did. 

I managed to cover a distance of 100 kilometres when the SS men caught me. They took me back 
to the camp with my hands tied back. I did not get any food for three days. It was settled that they 
execute me on the following day, but their plan seems to have changed, because they took me to 
work in a salt mine instead. There we received 150 grams of bread once a day, and no water at all. 
We were trussed up for hours every day. I suffered terribly in the salt mine due to the lack of water. 
It was a real forced labour, if it lasted longer I would have certainly died of it. The working time 
was ten hours a day. We suffered excruciating tortures because of starving too. A large number of 
my comrades died of hunger. Very many of them tried to get potatoes from the fields, most of them 
got caught and were shot dead.

There was just as much water to allay our thirst a little, but we could not make ourselves clean so 
we were full of lice and a lot of people were itchy among us. Those, together with typhus fever and 
starving, made masses die of complete exhaustion. We buried the deceased in mass graves. 

We heard heavy bombings on 4th May this year, whereupon the SS men disappeared. The glorious 
American troops arrived on the next day and they liberated us. 

At the liberation the starving mass attacked the food store houses, but the weak bodies could not 
tolerate the sudden change in the quality of the food. Due to the fat food, very many people died of 
diarrhoea and enteric fever.

The Americans took us by trucks to Wells. They hospitalized the ill, they disinfected us and took 
care that we receive the best and most nutritious food.

We were resting there under the most careful treatment for 3 months, then we came here with a 
transport. 

Regarding the future, I would like to immigrate to Palestine as soon as possible.