The persons in question have given us the following information:

When we got off the train in Auschwitz the young were sent to one side, children and the old 
to the other side. Fanny Katz tells us that she wanted to stay with her grandmother but she got 
a beating and she was not allowed to go there but was told that they would anyway meet up a 
week later. Cars carried away the elderly. We asked Polish locals where the elderly had been 
taken. They told us that they were going to be burnt in the crematorium. We heard the 
screams of the elderly and children. We were led into the baths, where they cut our hair off, 
and then we arrived in a cold bathroom where we stood all night long. We got food only the 
next day. We got up at 4 am to line up for roll call. We returned to the block and they ordered 
a curfew so we could go to the toilet only in guarded groups. We could not even go out for 
water although we were terribly thirsty. If at roll call a single person was missing we had to 
kneel down whatever the weather was like until they found the missing person. When they 
found her they cruelly beat her up. Once a civilian and Dr Mengele came and selected us for a 
transport. We did not know why they selected us and thought they were going to take us into 
crematorium. We cried in despair a lot. We returned to the baths and waited for two days. We 
slept in the open in the rain and were waiting for the freight cars. They entrained us and we 
travelled to Hochweile, where we arrived after two days of travel. We arrived at night and 
were much scared because they kept crying: "Los, los!!!" We walked 5 kilometres in a forest 
during the night. Everyone believed it was the end. We saw a factory that looked like a 
crematorium. Anxiety lasted until we got plates and cutlery. It cooled us down a little. They 
gave us wooden shoes and we went to work: we dug trenches. We left at 6:30 am and returned 
at 5 pm. We worked in great snow and freezing cold. When it was lunchtime we embraced 
each other and cried from the cold. We walked 10 kilometres in the morning and ten in the 
evening. It was a very hard work. We got coffee in the morning, while our lunch – potato 
soup – was delivered to our place at 1 pm. In the evening we got 20 grams of margarine, 
coffee and 200 grams of bread, and sometimes also jam. One Saturday they told us to get 
prepared and gave each of us two pieces of turnips and we had to leave. We walked with two 
pieces of turnips for four days as they gave us nothing else. This was how we arrived in 
Breslau. There was a military kitchen here, and they felt so sorry for us that they gave us a 
little barley gruel. We carried on walking till Gross Rosen in waist-high snow while Russians 
were already very close to us. We had to pull also two wagons, on which the German escort 
kept their stuff. For 12 days we were chased like beasts. Sometimes we got some food from 
locals, and when we had a rest in a stall in the evenings we stole some turnips. We got no 
water so we ate snow to quench our thirst. They shot the person who could not walk right 
away. This was how we arrived in Gross Rosen, where situation was awful; the Aufseherin 
were nasty and beat us a lot. We stayed here for 12 days. We received some kind of cabbage 
soup at noon and 200 grams of bread. They entrained us. 80 people got on an open freight car 
in the pouring rain. We were soaking wet. We travelled for four days hungry and thirsty. 
Several of us died on the way. Besides starving to death people were also killed by a bomb. 
We arrived in Bergen-Belsen, which was an extermination camp. The camp was indescribably 
squalid and full of lice. We lay on the ground 100 of us in a room that was 6 x 4 metres large. 
There was a typhus infection and at least 20 people died every day in our block. We carried 
the corpses out, made a heap of them, and they stayed there unburied for 2-3 weeks. There 
was a putrescent stink. The sick received neither medical care nor medicine. Americans 
liberated us the 15th of April.