The person in question has given us the following information:

From the ghetto of Ungvár we could still go out working, if we wanted to. We could do some 
shopping and we received packs from Christians. They sent us in the ghetto bread and 
milk. We spent five weeks here. My husband had been in Ukraine since 1942, and I already 
received a communication regarding his disappearance in 1943, when life became a misery 
for me. Five weeks later, we heard our names in the speakers and it was our turn. Gendarmes 
searched us and seized all our valuables already here. It is impossible to describe how awful 
our departure was, it is also awful to remember it. I left my home with my two-year-old 
baby. We travelled 75 of us in a freight car while they kept on issuing threats against us. My 
dear baby was begging for water but I could not even give her water and I vainly besieged 
these godless beasts in human skin, who made up our escort. Germans took charge of us in 
Kassa. We travelled for three days before we arrived in Auschwitz. 
When we got off train Polish men told me to leave my child with an elderly person. I thought 
my child was going to stay under better conditions so I gave her to an elderly woman. I have 
not seen her since. I stayed together with two of my brothers and sisters but later 
unfortunately also my younger sister was singled out. There were nine of us brothers and 
sisters at home and now only four of us are alive. I got into a block with the group fit for 
work, where they bathed us, shaved us, cut our hair off, gave us shabby clothes (by chance I 
could keep my shoes), and led us into a block where we lay on the floor. Rain fell in as there 
was no roof and we lay around half nude in dust, dirt and mud. We lived in continuous 
anxiety since there were selections all the time. Transports of people left to do work in 
different places but we were nervous and afraid of anything new and did not want to lose each 
other. We managed to be part of a mending kommando. Nevertheless, my younger sister was 
singled out at one point and was separated from me. When they held these selections we were 
running from one block to another like fools or rather like poisoned rats, we did not even 
have the courage to re-enter our block to have lunch or to report for roll call. This was how 
we managed to survive this place till November, when only the last 2,000 people remained in 
our block, and we were also selected for a transport. Rations were horrible in Auschwitz. We 
got some green grass as food, and if we had luck there were also some potato peels swimming 
in it. Naturally, sand and pebbles, used for making the soup denser, were grating between our 
teeth. We did not mind leaving Auschwitz any more because we lived here in continuous 
anxiety, and although I got no “camp sickness,” many did so. They took us in disinfecting 
building every fortnight. They grabbed all our clothes and we ran around here nude until next 
disinfection when they gave us some rags if there were. Meanwhile, we lived in terror, 
worried that we would not even return to our block but would be right away sent into gas 
chamber. We hardly did any work during our stay in Auschwitz but were already up at 2 am 
to turn out for roll call. In November, after three days travel 300 of us arrived in 
Rawensbrück. We got here quite decent supplies and were just waiting to carry on in another 
transport. We ended up in Lippstadt completely frozen in a piece of thin cloth in the middle of 
winter, and in summer shoes so they got scared of us when we arrived. Here they gave us 
everything: food and cutlery. We lived in the factory and worked between 6.15 am and 5.45 
pm. The woman doctor of the place warned us to stay as much in the open as possible because 
work had harmful effects. Every day we had warm water so we could wash; and everyone 
slept in her own bed. If you did not have clothes they would give you, and they gave us even 
shoes. At the beginning provisions were good: one quarter of a loaf of bread a day, but later it 
got much worse. We also did some work in private as dressmakers so we got the rations of the 
SS, and we could not particularly complain about treatment either. An SS woman guarded us 
in the plant. If they caught you at stealing they would cut your hair off. 
We worked in an aircraft factory where we prepared clocks. I worked always in day shifts. 
We did not suffer from cold because later we also got coats. We did not work from Saturday 
afternoon till Monday morning. During this time we could perform plays, where also the SS 
was present. Later, air raid alarms became frequent as there were a great number of air attacks 
but bombs fell only in the nearby. During the time we stayed here we ran down to ground 
floor only four times. Germans came to the same place because there were no air raid shelters.
We stayed here till April, when we were evacuated and started marching. We walked more 
than we stayed still. We departed with a loaf of bread each and did not see bread in the 
following three weeks. There were 350 of us when we set off. We also travelled by train for 
three days. That was how we arrived in Leipzig. We did not have the courage to fall behind 
because we were scared of starving to death. In Leipzig we found ourselves in the middle of 
horrible bombings. We though we would die there all when a bomb fell to ground only two 
metres from us but miraculously no one was hurt. On the way we got a little warm food only 
once. As soon as we arrived to a place and wanted to have some rest we realised we had to 
carry on because the English were hard on our trail. Also Leipzig was being evacuated when 
we arrived. We met here a group of around 6,000 prisoners, both Christians and Jews, and we 
carried on together with them. We stayed five days in a forest. We were poured by rain and 
had cold, we had hardly any energy left. They would shoot dead anyone who just stepped off 
road, who wanted to dig out a piece of potato or who could not carry on because of fatigue. 
We arrived in horrible conditions to the river Elba. We could not cross the bridge because it 
had been already blown up while masses of the population used the ferry. As it could not 
carry all of us the 85 of us Hungarians with an SS guard fell behind. The following morning 
we beseeched the guard to have another day rest and we managed to persuade him. By night 
we heard horrible noises, there was a serious attack and great clamour, and we realised they 
had blown the bridge up. The day after our guard was already dressed as a civilian. We were 
much surprised when Russians arrived, we could hardly believe our eyes when a Russian 
Cossack was standing in front of us. This was how we were liberated. Naturally, the first thing 
to do was to bring some food into the granary where we stayed. However, we could not stay 
there for long because it was dangerous: we were only 11 kilometres away from the frontline. 
We carried on walking another 8 kilometres and had a rest in a village. We went on walking 
again because we wanted to arrive home on foot. We walked for two weeks before we arrived 
in Cottbus, where they did not allow us to carry on but lodged us in private places and we 
stayed there for six weeks. Czech cars came to fetch us and carried us to Prague.

My future plans: unfortunately, I still have no idea what to do. I am still waiting to see if my 
husband turns up or if I can get to know what happened to him. I do not want to go on living 
in uncertainty. When it happens I will decide about my future.