The person in question has given us the following information: 
 
In 1941, at the beginning of the Russian war, I was called up. I travelled to the frontline with 
motorized troops. In August and September, masses of Jews in lack of Hungarian citizenship 
were deported out of the country to the Galician hell. I tried to help them and managed to 
smuggle two men across the border. At Christmas, I was discharged, and at home I was 
arrested with the chrge of having helped Jews to escape. I spent three months in the military 
jail of Margit Blvd. When I got freed I reported for duty at my troop and was soon resent to 
the frontline as an armed labour serviceman. When we were withdrawing all my fingers got 
frozen. After 8 months of hospital care, in October 1944, I was demobilized. I volunteered to 
work in the ammunition plant hoping that this could save me from deportation. I was wrong. 
First of December, the Arrow Cross gathered the Jewish workers of the plant, took them to 
the railway Józsefváros railway station and sent them to Germany. They put 70 of us on a 
small freight car but gave us neither food nor water and carried us for ten days in a closed car 
without a bucket for the toilet. Many passed away during this terrible journey. In our car four 
people died, their bodies were left in the car. They collected dead bodies on the train only in 
Prague. 
When we arrived to Oranienburg, they took all our stuff, clothes, and shoes, and we had to 
stand in the open all night long in thin rags and wooden shoes in the middle of winter. In the 
morning, they took us into the Henckel aircraft plant 8 kilometres away, where they put us 
into quarantine. 14 days later, I was sent back to Oranienburg as a skilled worker. I was 
accommodated and treated in a satisfactory manner but I was continuously hungry as our 
daily food was not more than what they called a turnip soup, that is, the cooking water of 
turnips, and a piece of bread. 
Russian front lines got closer and closer and the camp suddenly started to be emptied the 21st 
of April. They made us march on foot hungry and thirsty along the highway. This transport 
comprised mainly Hungarian and Slovakian Jews, who were in such a bad physical condition 
that they could hardly endure the incredible adversities of this trip. They got behind in order 
to recollect their energies to carry on, and as they got behind they cared about nothing any 
more and gave themselves over to death. 
SS hangmen meant a common fate for all of them: they shot them without any comment. 
Every ten steps there was a dead body alongside the road. 
We walked four days without any food and were already all close to collapsing when the cars 
of the International Red Cross reached us and saved us. They did not only give us ample food 
but achieved that the SS quit further executions. We were liberated by the Russians at 
Parchim.