The aforementioned person presents the following:

I owned a grocery in Munkács that was a flourishing business. I was started my labour service in Hódmezővásárhely on October 4, 1943. I stayed there for a month and then I was taken to Szeged where we stayed until January 25, 1944. Our guards treated us well and we got normal food supply. From there they took me to Rahó. They took us to work already at 6 in the morning and we were working until 8 pm. We got only plain soup and some bread to eat. After work there was a line-up that lasted two hours. Our guards there, including Imre Németh, Vinkovics and others, were beating us severely. They took us out of the country via Kolomea on April 11, 1944. We worked under the guidance of a sapper company in a forest. Our Hungarian guards were beating us all the time and we got quite bad food. Sometimes we did not see bread for days and our food was only plain soup and coffee. Our company commander, Lieutenant Elemér Gerzsovics, a registrar in Makó in civil life, gave the guards permission to beat the labour servicemen as much as they wanted. They took the opportunity to do so, especially Lance Corporal Ábrahám. After the withdrawal of our unit I was taken to hospital in Debrecen. Later they took me to another hospital in Zalaegerszeg and then I was sent back to my company in Hódmezővásárhely. Around the end of September we marched to Mohács where I was re-examined. After that they took me to Budapest where they discharged me and put me into the barracks on Aréna Road. On November 27, 1944 I was entrained at the Józsefváros railway station. Our journey lasted five days and we got no provisions for it. We were escorted by gendarmes. On the way a German officer asked us if we had any food, and then he got bread for us. We arrived at Bruck and der Leitha. where we dug trenches. We stayed in barns and sometimes were covered by 30-40 centimetres of snow in the morning. We stayed there until April 1, then we were embarked and taken to Mauthausen. We got only a half of a loaf of bread for the seven-day journey. We were not given more food during the journey, therefore a lot of people died of starvation on the way. In Mauthausen they housed us in tents where there was no room for everybody, therefore a lot of us slept outdoors. Once a German aircraft, which they claimed to be American, came and dropped bombs on us. One of them fell amongst the prisoners, and a lot of them died and were wounded there. When getting up the following morning, we could see torn-off hands, legs and arms all around us. Our food supply was very bad. Twelve people got one loaf of mouldy bread and each of us got half a litre of soup. We did not work there and a couple of days later they took us to Günskirchen. Our journey lasted for three days; we got only 120 grams of bread and very little margarine for provisions. We arrived drenched to the bone, because it was raining. One thousand five hundred people were put into a wooden barrack where we did not have room to sit, let alone to lie down. That situation, thank G-d, lasted only a week, because on May 4, 1945 the Americans liberated us. They took me to the hospital of Hörsching. I spent six weeks there. I went to Linz by boat, and then to Wiener Neustadt. From there I went to Bratislava on foot where I continued my journey to Budapest by train.