The person in question has given us the following information: 

I lived in Munkács and I started my labour service in 1940. I worked in Nagybocskó and Ókemence by the railway. From Szeged we were taken to Bor where we worked for the Germans, but under Hungarian command. Our work was very hard: we had to push iron trams. We had to bear unbearable pain and unimaginably bad treatment. Our work unit consisted of 3500 people out of which 300 were trussed up every Sunday; it was a torture that lasted two hours. Our “crime” was taking a rest or not working fast enough. The registry number of those who “committed this crime” was written down and at the end of every week a report arrived about them from the SS; their punishment was truss-up. From Bor we set off on foot and marched all the way to Belgrade. We spent the nights outdoors, even if it was raining heavily. We were accommodated there for five days. Our commanders treated us very badly. Before we left for Serbia, Lieutenant Colonel Marányi had 60 men executed because some of them tried to escape.
From Belgrade we went to Chervenka under Hungarian escort. On the way some of the labour servicemen stepped out of the line, since the Serbians gave them bread; the Hungarian guards executed them for that. The SS took us over in Chervenka and searched everybody taking all of our valuables. We still had a lot of things. On the same day the SS took us to a brickyard where we were searched again and 1200 labour servicemen were executed. The first transport was led by a 15-year-old Hitler Youth, who shot one men after the other just because they left the ranks, since they were too weak to march. Those who were strong or dressed well were executed separate from the group. It happened that they had a grave dug in advance and afterwards they shot the people into it. There is a farm about twenty kilometres from Chervenka where many people are buried.
We set off on foot from Szentkirályszabadja. The guards did not give us any food, even if it had been distributed to the company. We walked for twelve days to the first German railway station. Here we were entrained and taken to the camp of Flossenbürg. When we arrived, about 1000 of us were closed up in a bathhouse. Many suffocated due to the great heat. We treaded many to death, since nobody had enough space. We did not have to work there. After three weeks the strong ones were selected to work and the weak ones stayed in the camp. I do not know what happened to them.
We were entrained and taken to Dora. We arrived in the morning and stayed outside in the coldest winter until evening in thin clothes and wooden shoes. Then we were bathed and assigned to blocks. We were in quarantine for two weeks and then we were selected for work. We worked by the railway in thin clothes even in heavy snow and rainfall. On the first day we did not get anything to eat at all. We had to work 12 hours a day without a break, and we had to walk six kilometres to our workplace every day. The SS supervisors were beating us constantly, without any reason. After two weeks there was a selection and the weak prisoners were taken to Buchenwald.
After two months we went to Nordhausen on foot. After our arrival we were taken into a garage where a roll call was performed. This lasted until 5 am, so we could not sleep at all. On the same day we were assigned to work. We were taken to our workplace by train and we worked by the railway 12 hours a day. After 12 hours of work we had to wait at the station for three hours every single night for the train to arrive even in the severest frost and cold. Some of us froze to death. Most of the time there was an alarm and in those cases the train stopped. Therefore it was around 11 pm when we arrived in the camp every single night. Then they distributed soup; this procedure lasted until 1 am, so we did not bother to undress, since we were woken up at 5. I spent approximately five months in Nordhausen. Then we were set off on foot again and reached Harzung. Before our departure, we had not received any bread for twenty days, which naturally resulted in a lot of prisoners growing weak. These men were not transported further, but stayed in the camp. After our arrival in Harzung, fifty people who were too weak were immediately taken back to Nordhausen. I do not know what happened to them.
In Harzung I also worked in a work unit outside the camp. The treatment was a bit better; finally we received bread after twenty days of terrible starvation. We could have had a shower, but there was a small bathroom for 6000 of us and therefore we rarely had our turn. Under those circumstances the entire camp was full of lice and most of us became scabby as well.
When we departed from Harzung, each person received a loaf of bread. By that time the American troops had been approaching and their aircrafts had bombed the camp. That is why we had to move on. We were marching for eight days. Whoever fell behind because they could not march due to weakness were ruthlessly shot by the SS. After twelve days we finally had a rest in a village where the SS rounded us up in a barn. When we woke up the next morning, the local German residents chased us out. They told us to go to the nearby village where we would get potatoes. We went there and on that day the SS left us alone. On the same evening the glorious American troops arrived and freed us from our great sufferings. They also made sure that the German residents gave us the best catering possible. When we got a little bit stronger, we travelled home individually, since we did not have the patience to wait for the Czech transport.
As for the future, I do not have any definite plans, but it is most likely that later I am going to settle down in Palestine.