The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was living in Sashalom and worked as a seamstress. One day in June 1944 gendarmes showed up and ordered everybody to pack up in 20 minutes, for we would be taken to the ghetto. The ghetto was in the Budakalász brick factory. We spent a week there and during this time we ate what we had taken to the ghetto. There were a couple of SS men who lashed us with whips without any particular reason. 
After a week we were entrained. Seventy-five of us were squeezed into a cattle car, the children and the elderly too. Having no water, we suffered a lot from thirst in the locked-up cattle cars. The gendarmes constantly demanded gold and money. They told us that we would work and be well off. Hungarian gendarmes escorted us to Kassa where they handed us over to the Germans. We got some water in Kassa. The travel to Auschwitz took three days. 
In Auschwitz we were separated at the station. I was put on the right with the youths; my mother was sent left with the elderly and the children. My mother started to shout that I was her daughter and begged to be allowed to stay with me. A physician assigned to work with the SS men told us to calm down, since all family members would meet in the evening. 
We were taken to the bath and we undressed. Slovakian girls, with whips in their hands, were walking around with SS men. We were taken to the bath in groups of 100. Afterwards we had to stand at least two hours until they distributed clothes, but no underwear. They painted red stripes on the uniforms and took us to the camp. We spent the night lined up for roll call; we had to stand there from 4 to 8. At noon they distributed turnip soup. It was almost impossible to wash ourselves: we had to bathe in the swamp. When drinking water was brought there, everybody was running to get some, but the female block leaders chased us back to the block with whips and beat everybody on their heads. Rain was falling into the block, so our clothes were so wet in the morning that we could wring water from them, but of course we had to keep wearing them. 
We were taken from Auschwitz to Bergen on September 21. We stayed in tents. Unfortunately I got arthritis from which I am still suffering. Otherwise we were doing fine: we were not beaten and there was enough food too. We stayed there until November 4. 
From Bergen we were taken to Dudenschall. We worked in an ammunition factory there; I was assigned to a quite an easy job. I checked the heights of the case heads; I rested more than I worked. My fellow prisoners performed really hard work. 
When the English approached, we were entrained on April 5, 1945. We were escaping away from the frontline: first by train, then on foot. Later we were put into freight cars again and the train was pushed to a sidetrack; we were travelling up and down. 
At first five of us, later eight of us got a loaf of bread. Once we got barley, we ate it raw; most of the time we ate sorrel and green leaves.         
We were hit by an air raid eight kilometres from Theresienstadt: six prisoners died and 18 got injured. We kept on marching and after three weeks we arrived in Theresienstadt. 
Two or three days after our arrival, on May 8, 1945, we were liberated.