The person in question has given us the following information:

When we arrived in Auschwitz, we were taken to the bath where we had to changes clothes and we spent the night there. The next day we were taken to Dörnau. After two days 100 of us were selected here and we were taken to Ellenbursch. Our job here was to unload sand from freight cars 12 hours a day in day and night shifts. In the morning we got coffee, some soup at noon, potato soup, a quarter of a loaf of bread, a little margarine and sausage in the evening. The accommodation was quite good: we stayed in wooden barracks and slept on bunks: 20 of us on a large bunk. Treatment was very bad, we were constantly beaten. We were driven very hard. An SS was sent out just to urge us. We did not have underwear, so we could not change, therefore we were overcome with lice.  When the Russians approached we had to flee. We marched 400 kilometres and were entrained at the Czech border. Food was not distributed for the march and we were so hungry that we ate snow. One hundred and twenty people were crammed into a freight car and at least fifteen of them died daily. The journey was terrible: we were in closed cars, there was no air. This is how we arrived in Flossenbürg. We did not have to do anything. Twenty of us got one loaf of bread and a quarter of a litre of soup. We were treated very badly here as well. Our accommodation was terrible. Five of us slept in one bed. We could not undress for six weeks, since if the Blockältester shouted “aufstehen”, then all of us had to run in clothes and if someone was not running fast enough, he was beaten by the Blockältester with a rubber truncheon. Therefore we decided not to take our clothes off. Soon the strong were selected, including me. We were taken to Offenburg to clear rubble. We were given one-third of a loaf of bread and soup twice a day: one litre altogether. We lived in garrisons, but the treatment was not any better than in the previous place; our Blockältester was very bad. We had to work 12 hours a day. Reveille was at 4 am; we got our coffee and we had to be ready by 5 am. By 5:30 we already had to be working. From here we were evacuated to Dunaesching. Before we left, 45 sick prisoners – who would have been incapable of marching – were executed. We walked 100 kilometres. Those unable to walk were shot dead. Approximately 10 prisoners escaped on the way and we were punished for it: we did not get anything to eat. We had to clear rubble here too.  The working period was 12 hours here as well. Treatment was also very bad. German capos were beating us. We did not get a drop of water the entire time and food was distributed randomly too, since the frontline was approaching and there was no food. After a while we were entrained. On the way we saw two airplanes approaching. The SS men jumped out of the train. The planes fired into the train and one prisoner died. Many tried to escape in the chaos. Those caught by the SS were shot down. Afterwards we were driven into a forest where we spent a whole day. Then we were taken out of the forest to march on, but by night all the SS were gone. The prisoners were very hungry and broke into the freight cars containing food. By the morning the French arrived, but unfortunately they had been pushed back. The returning SS men wanted to execute us, but the civilian population did not let them do it, because they were afraid that the occupying French forces would execute everybody in the village. We were crammed into a cellar which was put on fire by the SS. There were Russian prisoners with us who realised what was going on and broke through the door. By the evening the French were there again and we were liberated. Later I ascertained that this event took place in a village called Immerdingen.