The person in question has given us the following information:

We arrived in Auschwitz on May 20, 1944 and spent six months there. Our life was miserable there. We did not work regularly, but we performed occasional work: we carried stones. The block leaders were Slovakian women, all very bad. They constantly beat us. They told us that we ate challah bread when they did not get even bread and threatened us with the gas chamber all the time. I was separated from my sister around Sukkoth. She grew fatally weak; I have not seen her since. We had to line up for roll call a lot; many times we were standing three to four hours and we were not allowed to go to the toilet or to get some water either. We were standing in the rain wearing only thin dresses. I was put on a transport on November 1 and taken to Ravensbrück. We rested here for two weeks in quarantine. The food was fine: we got half a litre of soup three times a day (morning, noon, evening), we also got a quarter of a loaf of bread, some sausage and margarine. Afterwards we were selected again and this is how we got to an aircraft factory in Barth. We worked 12-14 hours a day in day and night shifts. We were treated very strictly. If somebody attempted to finish work 10 minutes before the end of the shift, she was reprimanded. A part of the workers behaved well, another part did not. We got coffee for breakfast, a quarter of a loaf of bread (later only one-eighth) and we got Zulage twice a day. We were accommodated in a loft. It was very cold and we were terribly cold; heating was out of the question of course. We did not sleep in beds, but bunks; we were beaten many times, our food was withdrawn and we got punished every so often for the smallest reasons. We did not have time to wash ourselves, since many times it was not before 10 pm when we finished supper. We were teeming with lice; some of the prisoners died of typhoid fever, but fortunately not too many. We had to flee from Barth at 11 pm on April 30. We were given a half of a loaf of bread and a pack of margarine. We had to march 35-40 kilometres a day. After a while we were incapable of marching on, since we were extremely exhausted. They did not want to entrain us. All of a sudden we noticed that all the female overseers disappeared and we stayed there without supervision. We entered a forest and spent the night there. The next day the Russians arrived and we were liberated.