The persons in question have given us the following information: 

At the end of November 1944 we were dragged away to the Józsefváros railway station, partly from flats and partly from protected labour service companies. They put 80 people into a freight car and they sealed the cars. We were travelling for six days crammed together, without any food or water. They never opened up the doors on the way. We arrived in Sopron and from there we went to Harka. The Arrow Cross looted us on the way. The Arrow Cross men and ethnic Germans SA soldiers from Sopron maltreated us in Harka. We started to work at 7 in the morning. In the beginning we thought that if we finished the work that had been assigned to us, we would be allowed to go home. Therefore all of us worked very hard. However, when we finished, they ordered us to undertake another task. The local people were hostile to us. They even refused to give us a flask of water from their wells, because in that case, as they said, the wells would dry out. We could make ourselves clean only with snow. They treated us cruelly. The most brutal was an SA man from Vienna, called Mike. First he punished the labour servicemen by withdrawing their bread rations; later he gave his victims 25 blows or even more with a club. He enjoyed that very much. We stayed in a barn where the snow was falling in; in the mornings we were covered by snow. They brought another group there in December. They came from Slovakia, via Kassa and they were also Jewish labour servicemen. Along the way the Hungarian soldiers took away their boots and trousers, therefore they arrived barefoot and with nothing but underwear on in December. They were travelling six days in freight cars and got no food at all. Those poor fellows were full of lice and infested us with lice too. Consequently, they also infected us with typhus. There was a so-called infirmary in a tent for the ill. However, they did not get any medicine and got no better food supply either. The physicians made miracles there. They operated with pocket knives on straw mattresses. A lot of people became frostbitten and their wounded and necrotic limbs had to be amputated. The belongings of the dead were distributed amongst us. One of the German foremen once shot dead three people, just for fun, because he was drunk. The political leader of the camp said to him: “Aber mach keine Kindheit da!”
They set us off at the end of March. We were marching for three days and then entrained. We travelled in Pullman carriages, but there was nothing to be gained by that. Two hundred forty people were in a carriage. The train stopped very often, and then we were allowed to get off. However, those who moved off the train to pick some turnips or grass were shot down. On the way we got 15 grams of turnips twice. Once we found a pit near the train and those who dared to take the risk could steal a lot of turnips from it.
It was raining all the time in Mauthausen. Upon our arrival, eight of us got one loaf of bread. The following day, however, we had to split the same size of loaf into fourteen parts. There was an SS sergeant hitting prisoners in the head with a club. He broke 8-10 clubs per day that way. There was enough water and we could make ourselves clean; however, the food was very scarce and they were always beating us ruthlessly. There were very many deaths. They collected the ill in a tent and let them die there. The crematorium was always working.
We had to go further once again. While marching, we could constantly hear shooting. Sometimes we were forced to go double time and those who could not keep pace where shot dead. We were marching between lines of corpses. For one day we got nothing and then the second day they gave us some bread and margarine. On the third day we got one litre of spoiled soup which we could not eat, even though by that time we were not very picky.
Günskirchen was a death camp. Two thousand seven hundred people stayed in a barrack that could normally hold only 500. We were sitting hunched up on our rucksacks on the ground. It was raining night and day, therefore we could not go out. There were 250-300 deaths a day. Corpses were lying in and in front of the barracks. We managed to get half a litre of water in 17 days, even though we were supposed to get half a litre daily. We got four decilitres of plain coffee for breakfast, but sometimes we got nothing. Our lunch was four decilitres of turnip soup and the dinner was about 40 grams of sausages and 150 grams of bread. We were starving badly. A lot of people died due to fatal exhaustion. On the second day after our arrival the doctors reported 70 people infected with typhus. By order of the Lagerführer the persons lying ill with typhus were shot dead. From that time on, the doctors did not dare to report the typhoid patients, and the latter stayed together with the healthy prisoners. The Americans liberated us on May 4.