The person in question has given us the following information:


Obeying the call-up announced on bills, I reported for duty in Garrison Károly in Budapest on May 13, 1943. They took us to Poland, then we were sent back to the Upper Province. Our company commander was 2nd Lieutenant Zoltán Szilágyi, who was beating us with his own hand. The guards were replaced time to time. We were building emplacements and then we were set off from Kassa directly to Mauthausen.
We lived in tents in Mauthausen; one person had a space of 40 x 40 centimetres. Of course, sleeping was out of the question. The food supply was terribly poor. We got two decilitres of black water in the morning, dried turnips for lunch and one loaf of bread for 10-12 people in the evening.
The members of a newly arrived POW transport took away our rucksacks. A young man stepped up to a sergeant to complain, but the sergeant beat him to death with a club. That sergeant was a sadist anyway. It happened that he went among the prisoners and he was beating them severely and whoever he hit died. Besides, plenty of people were shot dead, so there were very many deaths in the camp.
Around the end of April we were driven to Günskirchen on foot. A vast number of people died along the way, mainly because they were shot dead. All those who could not keep the pace and fell behind, who walked with a stagger or who left the line to pick some grass to satisfy their outrageous hunger were doomed.
Günskirchen was a horrific place. The camp had not been completed yet and 2400 or even more people were crammed into each barrack, which could normally hold only about 800. We were killing each other for a little room. There was no water even for drinking and therefore we could not wash ourselves either. We became dirty and infested with lice. People were dying off from various diseases, including typhus, fatal weakness and diarrhoea. The latter was especially terrible, because there was only one latrine in the camp for 17,000 people. Those who tried to stand aside to relieve themselves were shot dead. The SS was even more devastating than the diseases, because the only punishment they knew for any offence was death.
There was a sergeant who arranged the burials. They dug a hole of 10x10 metres and then they threw into it the dead bodies, which amounted to 200 to 250 every day. While working there, one of the young prisoners asked for permission to go to the latrine. The sergeant let him go, but as soon as he left, he shot him. The young man immediately died. Another young prisoner who worked as a foreman asked the sergeant why he had shot a prisoner after allowing him to leave. “If you do not like it, let you die too” - the sergeant replied, and then he shot dead the other man as well.
It was nothing for them to bury people alive. If they found that the number of deaths was not enough, they put weak people into the hole. Those who could not get up were ordered to be taken out and thrown among the dead bodies in the mud.
The American troops arrived on May 4 and gave back our liberty.