The person in question has given us the following information: 

I lived with my parents in Bustyaháza; my father was a timber merchant. We lived under really good financial circumstances until our shop was confiscated by the Hungarian authorities. After the German occupation we were taken to the ghetto of Mátészalka and we were deported to Birkenau. 

In Birkenau we were immediately separated: my mother was sent to camp #, the three of us (my brothers and me) were taken to the Gypsy camp. We were very badly off: we could not wash ourselves and the Gypsies beat us up. Five of us got food in one pot without cutlery, so we had to drink from it, one after the other. We got one-fourth of a loaf of bread for a day, but the Gypsies stole it and we got only one-sixth. However our main dish was some green soup made out of grass, pebbles and small pieces of wood. 

After two weeks children were put into camp D. We were much better off there. I met some people from Bustyaháza too. We got a quarter of a loaf of bread and some Zulag too. In two weeks an epidemic broke out, therefore we were locked up for eight weeks. I did not get sick. We were very badly off. We did not starve, but one prisoner collapsed after the other due to thirst.  We had nothing else to drink in the terrible heat, but half a litre of tea for the three of us. Many died of thirst. There were beatings too, but only those were beaten who deserved it for doing something. After eight weeks we were put into quarantine camp A. We spent two weeks there, then I was transferred back to the Gypsy camp. The situation improved somewhat there, since by then all the Gypsies had been taken to the crematorium. The Polish and German female block leaders beat the other prisoners heavily, but I was able to speak their language, so I was fine. 

Once in September Dr Mengele showed up and from that day he came every day to select the prisoners. The thin, the old, the children and the sick were immediately taken to the gas chamber. Many Polish inmates in the barrack had gold hidden in their shoes; they gave the block leaders golden rings, watches and similar items. In exchange the block leaders get them out of the cars and replaced them with healthy children or adults so that the number would add up. They always dragged the prisoners of two blocks away; in one block there were 600-700 people. This happened in all camps. 

Once I was selected too, but I escaped with my brother. 

There was a selection when they ordered everybody under 18 to step out of the line. A piece of wood was fastened horizontally to the doorpost and everybody had to proceed underneath. The short were singled out. They were locked up, but by then everybody was very wild and was capable of doing anything for their lives. They simply broke the door and scattered, but unfortunately it did not help: the next day they were rounded up and taken away. 

The patients of the hospital were always taken away. The leader of the work units selected the transports. The transports were always going away. Many transports were tattooed, but not all.  

I was in the last Birkenau transport.  Camp BIII opposite to us was taken away one night and the same thing happened to camp C and then the Gypsy camp.  

When all the transports left, there was only one block with sick prisoners in it. An order came that everybody had to line up in front of the kitchen. We were taken into camp D.  We had to go to work from there and it was very cold. We had to dismantle the blocks; it was very hard work. We were wildly beaten; they beat a few people to death every day. Every so often prisoners were taken to the station to carry rails; once 30 left and 16 came back. They were shot down or beaten to death by the SS and the capos. 

Eventually the last transport left Birkenau. There were 80 people in the cattle car; it was a smaller type of car. The train proceeded very slowly: we stopped more than we travelled. We were heading to Neugasse (near Hamburg), but we did not get off, because they did not want to receive us, but sent us to Braunschweig.

We got off in Braunschweig and everything we had acquired until then was taken away. An antisemitic Polish Blockältester beat us. We were overcome with lice. 

We worked in the Büssing car factory. In the morning we were woken up at 3:30 am; bread was distributed at 5 am. As we had gotten the bread, we went out to the snow for roll call, which took at least an hour. If the roll call was correct, we had to line up by working groups and we were off to the factory. Lunchtime in the factory was from 1 pm to 1:30. They gave some turnip or dry cabbage soup. The work ended at 6 pm. Then we went home and reported for roll call right away. We stood until 7-8 pm until we got counted. Then they distributed bread, a one-twelfth portion was one person’s share. Then we could rest. Two persons got one blanket, but in a while so many died that everybody got his own blanket. Still it was very cold, so we would have rather lain together with my brother. Sometimes they gave out clogs; before they did, we were barefoot. There were 1000 people in the camp, but eventually 250 remained. The rest was killed by hunger, beatings and diarrhoea.

Two of us worked at three machines. We had to put pieces of iron into the machine very precisely. 

Once there was a bombardment and while we were in the basement, the factory above us was destroyed. Then we went to clear rubble. It was a very hard and dangerous job. One of the buildings collapsed and it buried the working unit; only a few people survived. 

Once an order arrived that we could not get out of the camp and we did not go to work either. After three days we were taken to Wattenstand on foot. Our situation was very bad there. It was extremely cold and we were terribly beaten. We could not enter the barrack the whole day. We were ordered to leave that camp too. We were given a piece of bread, a piece of margarine and a sausage. We were taken to the station and we stood there for a while. Then came the Lagerführer and told us that we could not go, for the railway line is cut, so we had to go back to the camp. At 4 we had to line up again; we were taken to the station, entrained and set off towards the Russians. We did not get anything to eat. There were 75 of us in one cattle car. When we got off, we had to walk through a forest. The worst thing was that an SS escorted us. He lashed out with a rod and beat us.  

We arrived in Sachsenhausen, near Berlin. They could not receive us there, so we had to keep marching to Ravensbrück. It took a week to get there and on the way we did not get anything to eat. We ate raw potato peels and grass. 

The real lice problem started in Ravensbrück. The Sun was shining, it was very hot, sand, dust and dirt was everywhere. There was a lavatory, but we were not allowed to enter. All we did the whole day was lining up for roll call. One evening, as the roll call was over, we went to bed, but just as we lay down, it started again. They repeated this five times. Meanwhile we did not want to lie down so that we did not have to get up again, but they beat us and forced us to lie down. 

We were told that the Jews would be taken away to be exchanged in Switzerland. They recorded our data and the next day they ordered us to step out of the line. We did and we walked six to seven kilometres. We spent a week there. Many fell ill there with typhoid fever. 

Later we were not supposed to go to Switzerland anymore, but to Sweden. We were very happy about that too. We were put into Red Cross freight cars (45 people into one car) and we were not guarded by the SS, but the Wehrmacht. I think they did this so that we would not escape. We got off, walked a few hours in the forest and arrived in a camp. There we got one-sixth of a loaf of bread and one decilitre of soup for a day, nothing else. We stayed there for two weeks and we were entrained again: 130 people in an open freight car. We got into a heavy hailstorm; pieces of ice hit us.  We slept in the car: one prisoner leaned against the other. In the morning we were made to get off and they took us to the camp. Most of the SS left already. At roll call we noticed that American airplanes were circling above our heads. 

One day the SS disappeared. For two days we did not get anything to eat. All of a sudden a soldier arrived on a motorbike. He was American. 

When we were liberated, we stormed the kitchen, we even ate raw flour. 

We were taken to Ludwiglust where I fell ill with typhoid fever and I was taken to hospital. This looked like the one in the camp, except that we got white challach bread and grits. Otherwise it was just as lousy and dirty and there was no medicine either. Jewish physicians treated us, but they did not have medicine, so they could not really help. The most serious cases were transported to the American hospital. My fever was 41 degrees Celsius, so I was taken there too.  It was at an airport; we were very well off there. We got oranges and other great things and we were lying in clean beds. The nurses were American, the Germans only cleaned the place. 

While I was still recovering, I was taken to another hospital to Schwerin. It was an English one. Deportees were in this hospital; they suffered mainly from diarrhoea. Many died. My legs were still swollen when I was taken to Lübeck. I was in hospital there too until I left for home with the Czech transport.