The person in question has given us the following information:

In the middle of May 1944, one day Hungarian gendarmes and Arrow Cross men gathered the 
Jews in Ilonca, took their valuables, gathered them in the local Jewish temple, and then took 
them to the Beregszász ghetto the same day. The transportation to the ghetto was done in a 
very cruel way, with much harassment by the part of Arrow Cross men and gendarmes. The 
ghetto was guarded inside and outside by gendarmes and Arrow Cross men. We were here for 
two weeks. Then we were entrained and taken to Auschwitz through Kassa. There were 90 of 
us in a freight car. Whatever food we had was taken away. Six of us were given a loaf of 
bread for three days. There was a bucket of water in each car. The water lasted for one day 
only, for eight days we were very thirsty. 
When we arrived in Auschwitz, we were selected at the station. My mother and my twelve-
year-old younger sister were made to stand apart, I was put among those fit for transport. 
They took my clothes, and because I ran away from haircutting, I was slapped twice so hard 
that I fainted. I was assigned to stay in Camp A. I did not have to work, but there was five 
hours of roll call every day. Food was very little. After two months we were selected again, 
and I was put among those fit for a transport. I was entrained and taken to Gelsenkirchen.
In Gelsenkirchen, we were clearing up the rubble after the bombing. We had to get up at 5 
o’clock, went to work at 6 am, we walked about 5 kilometres a day and worked until 6 pm. 
Rations were very meagre, 250 grams a day, half a litre of soup at noon, coffee and  25 grams 
of margarine in the evening. The journey was very tiring, and if someone was tired because of 
the work and stopped, they would beat her up very badly. We were working the whole day in 
a standing position, our arms and legs were stiff. We had many bombings during work, once 
there were 200 dead people and many wounded. I was so weak that when I wanted to get up 
from my bed, I fell. Then for two weeks I lay in bed. I was not taken care of, they just let me 
lie helplessly, but I did not have to work. We worked here for five weeks before we were 
moved to Sommerdach. We worked in a weapon factory, one week at night, the other week 
during the day. We worked hard, every day for 12 hours, but the treatment and food was 
better than at the previous place. We worked here for 6 months.
When in May the Americans were approaching us, they drove us away for 200 kilometres into 
Meisellowitz, where we were handed over to another Lagerführer. We were there for two 
days, then, as they were again close to us, we were entrained in Meisellowitz and travelled for 
three days. They kept sending us up and down, and when they could no longer transport us by 
train, we continued on foot. In the meantime, we suffered an air raid on the way, one of my 
friends died, while two were left there injured. We went on walking for four weeks until the 
Czech border. Germans could not provide us food. We were very hungry and suffered a lot on 
the way. Those who fell behind were left behind.
On the last day of our walk, before Russians arrived, German guards fled, and we were left on 
our own. In the morning we woke up to realise that we were free. We were so tired that if it 
had lasted for two more days, no one would have survived. Even like this, half of us fell 
behind. Russians put us up in a school, where we stayed for two weeks. We greatly enjoyed 
all the good things that the Russians provided us with. Soon, we were not tired any more, and 
two weeks after our liberation we started home on trucks and trains.