The person in question has given us the following information:

In 1944 I performed labour service in Budapest. During an air raid I was shell-shocked and was taken to hospital. Afterwards I was discharged. I was staying in 8 Abonyi Street, a building protected by the Swiss embassy. One day the Arrow Cross occupied the building and took me the 10 Teleki Square. I was imprisoned there for two days, then I was entrained at the Józsefváros railway station. We were stationed there for two days, then after two days the train was set off towards the Budaörs airport. There we were stationed for four days then left for Germany.  A German officer and Hungarian gendarmes supervised the transport. In the first days we got 20 decagrams of bread and some Zulag, and once in while a little water. However, later there were days, when we did not eat at all. There were 80-90 people in a cattle car. Ten persons from our cattle car were able to flee on the way. The Hungarian gendarmes escorted us until Vienna, where we were handed over to the SS. We got some food in Vienna: 20 decagrams of bread and five decagrams of margarine. We also got some coffee in the evening. This is how we arrived in Buchenwald after 18 days of travel. During the whole travel we had to sit with numbed extremities; lying down was out of the question.   
Our clothes were taken away in Buchenwald, we got ragged civilian clothes, we got clogs in exchange for our shoes and we were given a number. Our hair was cropped. We were put into a camp. We spent 10 days here. During this period we did not work too much, the treatment was relatively good; we got 35 decagrams of bread and a litre of soup every day. One day I was selected as a technician and I was taken to Neubrandenburg. There I was assigned to an aircraft factory. I was also accommodated here. The treatment was quite good, only the food was scarce. We got coffee in the morning, 15 decagrams of bread, 0.75 litres of soup, 0.5 litres of soup or coffee again in the evening. 
One day an order arrived that all Jews must be taken out of the factory and transported to Ravensbrück. I managed to escape and I was hiding in the forest for a week. Once in a while I managed to get some food from the passersby. I was suffering a lot, since it was raining a lot, and I had to lie down among the trees without a blanket or anything to cover myself; I was hungry and soaking wet. 
After a week of hiding, the Americans came and saved me from my dire situation. The Americans got me food, gave me cloths, then I left for home in their car. I was already in Poland, when I collapsed due to exhaustion. I was unable to continue my journey: I was sick and was taken to hospital. I was treated for four weeks. Thanks to the good treatment and the careful attendance, I recovered and came to Budapest, where I am being helped by the convalescent home.