The person in question has given us the following information:
 
In 1941, I was taken into Poland together with my father and six brothers, from where I 
managed to run away. When Hungary was reunited with its historical parts I was in Budapest, 
but I took days off to visit my parents home, and we were all deported during these two weeks 
into Poland. They crossed the borders with us and then let us free telling us to go wherever we 
wanted to. We crossed the Polish border at Kőrösmező, we could not turn back as they would 
have killed us but could continue in the direction of the centre of the country. In Poland we 
got into a forest where the SS and Hungarian gendarmes were shooting at us. Unfortunately, I 
saw how they shot my mother and my brothers and sisters. I managed to run away and walked 
fast till Volóc, this is how I got back to Hungary. 
 
Not much later, I came to my firm in Pest but was summoned already at the end of 1943(41) 
to do labour service in Jászberény where I passed five months before I was transferred into a 
company in Pest. From the end of December 1942 till the end of December 1944, I was in 
Budapest in an anti-air raid company, then I was put into an unfamiliar company. Having 
entrained 75 of us in a car at Józsefváros railway station they carried to Sachsenhausen. 
During the journey sitting people kept swapping with standing ones as space was so little that 
we could not sit down all. We were escorted by gendarmes till the Hungarian border where 
they gave us to the SS. In the car someone committed suicide, and two weak people were 
trodden to death. At the Austrian border they opened the doors and we got bread and zulag. 
There were 3,500 people in our transport and the journey lasted ten days. The camp was a 
collecting camp. In Sachsenhausen they disinfected us, seized what they could and dressed us 
in striped clothes and wooden shoes. In Oranienburg we were grouped according to 
professions, this is how I got to Berlin-Siemensstadt, next to Berlin. Here they selected the 
strong and the weak. I was put into an outlying kommando, we carried iron railway lines, 
railway sleepers, which was a very difficult job. For this work we had the worst possible food 
supply. There was an SS foreman who got there because of punishment. He was the one who 
distributed the food giving us only three quarters of a litre of soup instead of a litre, and stole 
also from the bread portions, so we became really weak, many died of hunger, and often we 
ate also potato peels. These foremen and block leaders beat us with batons but we also 
suffered a lot of cold. One day I put a blanket under my clothes but was noticed by the 
foreman who reported it to the SS. They gripped my hands and feet and gave me 100 blows, 
another time I got a slap so strong that the eardrum broke. A great number of people died 
because of cold, of maltreatment and of starvation, especially young boys. 
 
They often bombed the Siemens company, at the end the whole camp burnt down so they took 
me back to Sachsenhausen. I stayed here 8 days when we got an order to set off as the 
Russians were already pretty close. We had to queue up immediately and leave but as we 
were the last transport there was no food left for us. We started our march on foot in the 
direction of Hamburg, towards the sea, 40 kilometres a day. We were starving so much that 
on the way we attacked locust trees and finished all their leafs but we were not particularly 
choosy, we ate also grass. Once we noticed a potato clamp and started to run to it but the SS 
shot at us and I got a bullet in the head. Those who were left behind on the road were covered 
with a blanket. This is how I passed half a day, then I got out and ran across the woods 
towards Schwerin. 17 kilometres further I met the first American soldier. They put a bandage 
on my head and took me into a sanatorium. This happened the 2nd of May. Thereafter I had a 
good life, I got everything I wanted, and was carefully treated for a month. I went to Lübeck, 
and applied for one of the Czech transports. I came to Budapest via Prague and Pozsony. 
 
My future plans: At the moment I work here in Budapest, later I would like to emigrate to 
Palestine.