The person in question has given us the following information:

I started my labour service on July 14, 1942 in Monor. The number of the company was 109/7. From here I was taken to Vác where we were entrained on August 23 and left for Russia. My company arrived in Kiev on August 28. After four days we left for Darnitza. Fifty labour servicemen, including me, were assigned to wood cutting. 

I was in Darnitza from August 1, 1943 to August 10, 1943. The treatment and the food were the worst possible. We performed hard work with insufficient food supply and constant beating. 

From Darnitza we were taken to Bobres, Belarus. I spent 2 months here. The treatment was relatively good, but the commander of the company, Lajos Jónoc did not hand over the letters of the labour servicemen, but he simply used them as fuel and burned them. He incited the guards against us and half of the unit was on his side. He conducted constant investigations against the labour servicemen and confiscated items that he was not entitled to.  

In November 1943 I was assigned to the tender vehicle unit 103 in Pinsk. I served here until July 1944, then I was taken to Brest-Litovsk where I spent seven months and was relatively well off. Lieutenant Nicsma behaved decently with the company and the food was good too. 


In July 1944 we started the retreat. We marched approximately 800 kilometres. I came across Warrant Officer Lajos Jónoc, who treated me quite normally on the way, but withheld the letters again. He is an employee of the company Hoffcshranz.


In the course of the constant retreat we arrived in Mezőtúr on October 6, 1944. In Körmend we were terribly beaten up by the Arrow Cross. We were handed over to the Germans in the freezing cold of February 1945 in Szentgotthárd. At that time the Germans treated us normally. 

We constructed fortifications in Heiligenkreuz, five kilometres from Szentgotthárd. The treatment was fine, the Germans behaved properly.

At the beginning of April 1945, 5000 of us were set off for the terrible death march towards Mauthausen. Hundreds of people died on the way. Those who were unable to march or those who stopped for a minute were shot dead immediately. We were marching hungry and thirsty. I spent only two days in Mauthauen, then I was taken to Günskirchen. A few days after my arrival the American troops liberated us on May 4, 1945.