The person in question tells the following: 

The Jewish law exercised no financial effect on me because I could continue my occupation. I 
worked as a labour serviceman the first time starting with 30th May 1944, when I was drafted 
for the company of Jászberény. From there we went to Szolnok, then to Zirc, finally to 
Újvidék. Nothing special happened during this time, there is only one event I have to tell 
about.

On 11th October 1944, on the way from Újvidék to Budapest we arrived at Kiskunhalas train 
station at 11 o’clock. Then the German SS started to shoot at the cattle cars and they 
annihilated our company. We buried 200 people there. 32 of them were buried alive, since 
they had escaped but they had got caught and we were ordered to bury them alive as a 
punishment the escape. At the same time an expectant woman, who was there for some 
reason, got shot in the stomach. Six of us survived from that company. The civilian 
population saw this massacre; they threw stones at us, they followed us along the street and 
demanded the execution of the six of us too. This thing happened because we had been 
accused of having shot at the train station. We managed to escape by my dressing up as a 
Hungarian soldier and with the help of a lieutenant colonel we joined the Kiskunhalas unit.
We stayed there for 2 months and, when they had to go to the frontline, they sent us to the 
collecting company in Komárom.  

We worked in Komárom, than they took us to Sopron. This happened already in November. 
We did earthwork in Sopron. We got very little food. The treatment was very bad and cruel, 
our overseers from the SA beat people, shot them and trussed them up. They had limitless 
control over life and death. There were plenty of lice and typhus fever began to spread. We 
were quartered in attics. 

From Sopron they led us on foot to Schattendorf, where we also had to do earthwork. The 
time we spent there was characterised by much work, little food and much maltreatment. 
Plenty of people fell ill and died due to complete exhaustion and so on.

At the end of February we set forth to Mauthausen on foot. The SS men began to shoot at us 
already when we started. Going through San Margaret, Loretto and San Florian we met other 
SS men, who made a big shooting and massacre. 

When we arrived in Mauthausen they placed us in tents where we lived under very bad 
conditions. We were often starving because they gave us very little food and even that was 
lessened by their stealing. So there was only turnip soup all the time and about 100-120 grams 
of bread.

I got infected with typhus fever and paratyphoid in Mauthausen, which I survived without any 
type of medical care. From Mauthausen we started to march to Gunskirchen towards the end 
of April. We covered the distance of approx. 60 kilometres marching within 3 days.   
      
We got something to eat only once during that time, so we marched in a very weak and 
tortured shape, amidst continuous shooting. Those, who stepped out of the row to pick some 
blades of grass or rape, were shot at once together with those, who sat down to rest for a 
couple of minutes. The SS men executed everybody with merciless cruelty.      
      
People were in horrible condition again, when we arrived in Günskirchen. As a result of the 
typhus fever I became completely deaf and blind, I scraped along like that for about a week 
until the liberation.

On 4th April 1945, the American troops liberated the Günskirchen camp. We did well under 
their regime. In the above story I told about my own experiences. My plans for the future: I 
want to go to America where my grandfather lives.