The person in question has given us the following information:

I was called up for the labour service in Nagybánya on 1st January 1943. Some days later we went 
to Szent József. There we worked in a quarry for three months. They treated us in a tolerable 
manner because, although the labour service guards mistreated us as much as they could, the 
commander of our company was a nice man. 
On 28th April they took us to the Ukraine. We arrived in Ovrucs where they made us get out of the 
train. We spent six months there; we cut down a forest and built bunkers. The guards treated us as 
cruelly as possible. Most of them were peasants from Makó and its vicinity. The most prominent 
ones were Lance Corporal János Rácz, Corporal Imre Német and Lance Corporal Imre Jáksó. 
They drove us to the fields full of landmines and, although we did not know anything about it, 
we had to defuse the mines with our bare hands and feet. It was, of course, impossible; several 
people were ripped apart by the landmines and many people were seriously wounded. The 
commander of our company, László Tresztler from Beregszász, also treated us terribly badly.
We began to withdraw towards the Carpathians. We went on foot; we stopped to have some rest 
only for some hours at every place. So we arrived in Kassa in December 1944. There we were 
entrained and travelled to Hidegség. In Hidegség they accommodated us in the barns of peasant 
houses. We had already been terribly weakened by then and, especially after such a journey when 
we were squeezed together so much in the cattle cars that we had not even been able to sit down, 
we wished to have a little rest. 
We lived in a house at number 50. Two of my comrades lay down in the straw. Then the son of 
our landlord, a young man barely twenty years of age, attacked them and beat them until 
they died. Then he attacked many other comrades of mine and wounded some of them. That was 
our reception. 
We stayed there till 28th March. We dug anti-tank ditches. It is impossible to describe how they 
treated us. They beat up and shot dead young, healthy men one after the other. They executed 450 
people at the same time in a farmstead called Ilona. 1,700 people were there in the beginning and 
when we left only 500 of us lived. 
We went to Mauthausen in a totally weakened condition, partly on foot, partly by train. I spent ten 
days there. We starved very much and the lice almost ate us up there. Although it was good in 
comparison to Günskirchen, where we arrived after a day-long march. That was the most horrible 
period of my life. We starved so much that we were already unable to speak and we were black 
from dirt. My body weighed 40 kilos when the unbelievable long-awaited miracle happened at last: 
we became free. The Americans took us to Wells by car. A free camp was formed there of about 4-
5,000 people. We have been resting there up till now. Now I want to go home because I have heard 
that my mother is alive and she is waiting for me.