The person in question has given us the following information:

We lived in Munkács, my parents, my 5 siblings and I. My father was the secretary of the local 
rabbi. In March 1944, two weeks before the Germans’ invasion, the rabbi emigrated to Palestine 
and from that time on my father led the office of the rabbi alone.  

At the end of March the Jews were ordered to wear a distinctive yellow star and around 10th April 
a decree was given to us stating that Jews had to move to the ghetto. Certain streets of Munkács 
were marked out for that purpose. We did not have to move because we lived in Latorca Street, 
which lay inside the ghetto. On one Saturday, some bloody events happened in the ghetto. We 
heard heavy gunfire early at dawn. SS men and military gendarmes appeared in the flats and 
gathered the men amidst gunfire; they took them to the synagogue of Munkács. There they 
beat them to a pulp, then made them “do sports” (physical exercises), which tortured them 
badly. Two of them were even shot down. They came back in the evening tortured almost to 
death, full of blood; many of them were taken to hospital, which was also located in the ghetto. 

On 20th May they took us to the brickyard of Munkács. The march was horrible: we could not 
make one step without being hit by the gendarmes. SS people came with us too, but they did not do 
harm to us. We took much luggage with us; we took the allowed 50 kilos of luggage. There were 
old people and children too, who could not keep pace with the young and the gendarmes shouted: 
“Filthy Jews, should we give you maids to go with you?” We were crammed in a small cabin for 3 
days in the ghetto, where we could not sit and could not stand either, so we were upon one another 
like sardines. It was very hot there and they ordered us to stay inside all the time. If we went for 
lunch at noon, the SS men pushed the food out of our hands on the way back. We could hardly wait 
to be taken away from there; we thought we could not be treated worse than that. On the third day 
we went away with a transport. 3,000 people left with the first transport and I was entrained with a 
group of another 3,000, so 9,000 people were left there from among the Jews collected from the 
country. Those who were in the first transport and were entrained before us were not allowed to 
take hardly anything with them. When it was our turn, the gendarmes were already more willing to 
allow us to take some belongings with us. 

70 of us were travelling in a cattle car; they put in an empty bucket for a toilet and a bucket full of 
water, and everybody received one kilo of bread. The children were thirsty, it was raining and we 
put our pots out through the window and drank the rainwater. The Hungarian gendarmes escorted 
us to Kassa, where they handed us over to the SS. The SS allowed the commanders of every cattle 
car to get off for water. When we arrived at the Slovak border we already knew we were going to 
Poland. We were very scared and we always expected to be taken off the train and shot down by a 
volley. 

We arrived in Auschwitz three days later, early at dawn. So many transports had arrived before us 
that they did not take us off the train before evening. In the evening the train was pushed from 
Auschwitz to Birkenau; Polish prisoners got in the cattle cars and told us to leave the luggage there 
and get off quickly. We only stepped 2-3 steps when two SS men came and separated us. Dad was 
placed among the men, so my mom took care that at least her 6 children should not be taken away 
from her. There was such a mess and noise that within some moments I realized that one of my 
siblings and I were standing on the right side. We were like people without brains. 

They took us to the bath and cut our hair, they gave us different clothes and after midnight they 
took us to block No. 13 in the Gypsy camp. We were tired; we lay down, 14 girls beside each other 
on a berth. I barely slept an hour, when I had to wake up again. We went out at 3 o’clock at dawn 
with bald heads, wearing very light clothes. We were cold and we cried a lot for our relatives. 
Instead of comforting us, the Slovak girls kept threatening us, saying that we should go on 
crying and we should see the smoke, we would go there. too. 

8 days later I was taken from the Gypsy lager to block 13 in Camp C. I became the one who looked 
after the cauldrons, I fetched the lunch, and I carried bread. My aunt was a Stubendienst; that is 
how I managed to acquire extra food. 1,000 of us lived in the block and we were selected by Dr 
Mengele, Grese and Drechsler twice a week. The stronger people were taken for transports, the 
weaker to the gas. Some people escaped at every selection. At the last selection I escaped to a 
transport, so that I would get away from Auschwitz as soon as possible. 

300 of us were selected and they took us to Freudenthal on the following day. Our camp was 
situated in a textile factory; we were accommodated there. The girls were distributed, some of them 
were sent to the factory, while others were put in the dressmaker’s room of the factory. I became 
the servant of the Aufseherin. We had 3 female and 12 male guards, all from the SS. The camp was 
divided into 3 blocks. They brought another 50 women in January, 12 who were Polish, the others 
were Hungarian Jewesses, so our number was finally 350. 120 of us stayed in a block. 

There were clean, tidy beds with straw bags and everybody received a blanket. In the beginning we 
received half a loaf of bread everyday, some soup at noon and black coffee and margarine in the 
evening. Towards March the food became much poorer. The Aufseherin liked me; I tried to please 
her and indulged her every whim, only not to be harmed in any way. I could get extra food and I 
often helped the ill people with that. 

On 7th May 1945 we woke up to see that all our guards had left and only the Lagerführer stayed 
there. She told us to help her pack up and she sent the Unterscharführer to ask the city military 
headquarters what should happen to us. She wanted to know whether to take us away, or leave us 
there. We entreated the Lagerführer not to take us away even if they were ordered to do so and we 
began to cry. 
Then came Machold, the owner of the factory, and told the Führer to hurry up, because the 
Russians were already there. Meanwhile, the Unterscharführer came back too and the owner of the 
factory threatened the people so much that they began to panic and told us too to hurry up, because 
we should go with them. We did not go, but they left hastily.

On 7th May the Russians liberated us. We heard the noise of heavy gunfire at night. Early in the 
morning, the Russians were coming on the main road towards the camp. The Russians took us to 
the city, they gave us food and clothes and then we went back to the camp and stayed there for 
another 3 weeks. 3 weeks later everybody went wherever she wished. All 350 of us set forth; we 
went on foot to Olmotz, from there we went by train for some time and we changed trains several 
times. Finally we got to Prague with a transport. In Prague we stayed at the Red Cross for 6 weeks. 
The Czechs were very happy for us and everybody treated us as if we were their own sisters. They 
did everything to help us in every possible way. I came to Budapest through Pozsony. I stayed in 
the home of DEGOB in Aréna Street, where I was very pleasantly surprised: I found there my 
father and my sister, who had been deported and had come home. All three of us are very happy to 
be together. My father has come home ill; his legs ache terribly, because of the lack of vitamins. He 
was sent to Szent István hospital and he is going to be treated for it there. When he is released and 
he is healthy, we will go to the Czech Republic, because after what happened we have nothing to 
do in Munkács any longer.