The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived with my parents in Herincse in fairly good financial conditions, since we had a shop. 
Shortly after Germans invaded the country, we had to go to Iza into the ghetto, and from there 
we were deported in freight cars into Auschwitz.

In Auschwitz I was taken to the baths, where my hair was cut off, my body was depilated and 
my clothes were taken away. I got a single shabby dress without any underwear. Later, I got 
into Camp C, block 22. We were sitting here the whole day long because we did not have to 
go to work; there were only continuous roll calls. Twice a day Dr Mengele appeared to select 
us. We kept hiding from him. If someone was missing at roll call, everybody had to kneel. We 
had to kneel for hours on small pebbles, which hurt a lot and pitted our skin, but it was 
forbidden to get into a better position. If, for example, someone got hold of a shirt, or put on a 
blanket when it was raining, she was beaten up. Once, I fainted at roll call, they beat me up so 
badly that I regained my consciousness.

Once, at selections my younger brother was taken to the gas chamber. He jumped out of 
the window to save his life, but Dr Mengele spotted him and sent him back to the gas 
chamber.

We had opportunity to wash ourselves. We had to go to the baths and the toilet in groups. If 
there was a block curfew, we were not allowed to go even to the toilet. Almost everybody had 
diarrhoea, and if they could not wait, they would do it inside. Punishments for this was 
beating, kneeling or the withdrawal of food. Twenty-five of us were close friends, we shared 
every bit of food we had with each other. This was the only way to endure.

At one occasion I was selected and transported to Frankfurt am Main. We had very hard work 
to do here. We worked in the open building railroads, grading, deforesting. This was the worst 
camp. We were beaten up for any minor trifle. If one stepped out of line or moved a little 
during roll call, they would not get food for three days and would get a beating. The transport 
consisted of 1,700 people, after two months there were only 200 of us left. They beat people 
to death and made people starve to death, and having a treatment and rations like this we also 
had to work hard. Fever under 40 C degrees did not count as illness, whoever had a fever less 
than 40 degrees could not rest even for an hour. If only 20 people died a day, it counted as a 
feast day.

Things were managed by SS women, there was also a man with them, he was the Lagerführer.

One day we went to work and it was raining heavily, the wind was high and it was also very 
cold. The guard felt sorry for us and took us home. They did not want to let us in but in the 
end they did so, but we got no food as punishment, which we did not mind, as we were 
content to be inside. We could hardly get inside and change our wet clothes when there was a 
new roll call and we had to return to work. We went back, although there was no work to do, 
we just had to stand outside in the rain.

If they called someone’s number and the person accidentally did not hear and the number had 
to be called again, she would be beaten up and kicked so much that she would faint three 
times in a row.

We were always very hungry. If there was a turnip on the ground we would pick it up, but if 
they saw someone running there, they would shot at her.

Our heads were bald, and we were not allowed to wear shawls. Moreover, they could not even 
know that we had shawls; we could only steal them. We worked with cement, and sewed 
dresses for ourselves from paper bags. We could hardly hide them. If they checked us at the 
gate we were shivering with fear, as we could be certain that we would not get food for three 
days. We wrapped our feet in paper, if not, they would have frozen.
 
One Sunday, we stayed at home because there was an air raid and the guards did not come for 
us. We were inside until it started raining, and when it started, we were chased outside to 
report for roll call.

If they found a turnip on someone they would beat them to death. We were searched at the 
gate; they would completely undress us to find such treasures.

We would eat raw potatoes like bread. We collected raw potato peels that others had thrown 
away from the rubbish heap and ate them. As a punishment they often cut our hair off if it had 
already grown a little. This did not hurt us because we were vain, but because our heads were 
really cold.

We lived like this for four months. Then the 200 of us, who stayed alive, went on to 
Ravensbrück.

We travelled in an open wagon without hay. Rain poured down on us, it was November, it 
was cold. We had stood in the open the whole day before they put us into the wagons wet as 
we were with a little dry bread for the journey. We had to get on but we were so weak we 
could barely walk. One of the SS women beat someone to death even there and then. Two 
people died during the journey.

Compared to Frankfurt, Ravensbrück was a very good place. We could take off the cement 
bags, which was until then our dress, because we got some clothes. Food was better; they beat 
us but less than in Frankfurt. We could work better there, because we could steal more, for 
example carrots and onions.

Sick people were selected and taken away. There was a crematorium also here. We found out 
last day that they had been taken there. We got one tenth of a loaf of bread and half a litre of 
soup a day. There were roll calls at different hours from 5 in the morning to 7 in the evening. 
Whoever did not work was not allowed to enter the block.

Once, we did not go to work and stayed in the block because there was no electricity. The 
Lagerkommandant saw that we were inside, chased us out of the block and beat everybody 
who fell into his hands. He led us into the punishment block, where there were around 300 of 
us. We had to stand there. He asked who wanted to volunteer for work. Twenty-five of us 
volunteered, he chose fourteen – including me – and took us with a transport to Barth. Later 
we heard that the others had stayed for three days in the punishment block.

In Barth, we worked in a factory. We had a good time there, because it was clean, and the 
work was tolerable, we worked in shifts, 2 weeks at night and 2 weeks during the day.

When the frontline got closer to us we had to leave. We had to walk: we did 38 kilometres 
one night. This was not really walking, it was running, we could not stop for a single moment. 
At Ribnitz (close to Berlin) we escaped and hid in the woods, we were liberated there by 
Russians.