The person in question has given us the following information:

In May 1944 I volunteered for anti-air raid service at the Insurance Company of Private Employees.  On December 6 the Arrow Cross raided us and took us to 4 Teleki Square. We spent two days there and on the 8th we were taken to the Józsefváros railway station and we were entrained. 
After 16 days of travel we arrived in Buchenwald, a concentration camp. On the way we got only three decagrams of bread a day; I lost 10 kilograms. The cattle cars were open on every third day and we could take care of our bodily needs only then.  

We arrived in Buchenwald at 12:30 pm. They left us there in the cattle cars until 6 am the next morning in the severest cold. At 6 am we were taken into the disinfection room where all of our clothes were taken away, and in exchange we were given striped clothes and a pair of clogs.  From here we were immediately taken to quarantine and we did not have to work at all. 

Our rations were quite good in the beginning, since we got a quarter of a loaf. The most terrible thing was that we had to line up for roll call for hours in the snow and since we had clogs on, our feet got wet. Both of my feet became frostbitten, they became swollen double their size. When I was reporting for the Blockältester asking not to be obliged to attend at the roll call I could hardly waddle. He slapped me, kicked me and shouted “weg” at me.  

I was lucky to be put on a labourer’s transport and on January 10 I was taken to Neubrandenburg. I was doing relatively fine here, though antisemitism was very vibrant. Jews were taken only to outdoor assignments in the cold.  Later, when there was no more outdoors works, we were gradually admitted to the factory. The factory was called "Merchandische Weisstädter Neubrandenburg" and we were manufacturing aircraft parts here. We were working together with French and Belgians and we were allowed to chat with them. 

In the factory the capos were constantly beating us for the smallest reasons. We were working 12 hours a day in the factory. We were doing very badly in the camp; we were lying on bunks and the food was scarce. We did not get anything in the morning, 1 litre of soup at noon and a one-seventh portion of bread in the evening, or even less than that. We got some Zulag with the bread too. 

One night the Blockältester came in three hours after retreat and ordered us to get up.  We were in horror, since we did not know where they would they take us. All of us were searched thoroughly and we left for Ravensbrück by car. We arrived at 2 am and we were lying in the sand of the roll call area until 5 am. At 5 there was a roll call for the whole camp, and then we were taken into the upper camp where we spent a couple of days without food or water.  
On April 26 we received our Red Cross packages, then we were entrained. After travelling one and a half days, we arrived at Wöbbelin (next to Ludwiglust) to a place, which could be called a death camp. Here we received bread at their mercy. This meant if they wanted, they gave us some, but if they did not, then we did not get any. Moreover we were beaten severely. We could not drink water, since the water of the only well was infected and drinking from it meant death. When we lined up for roll call and the number was missing, then dead bodies were thrown in front of the line to meet the number. A hundred dead a day was the minimum. They died mainly because of hunger and diarrhoea or they were beaten to death. 

The capos stole our care packages, we had nothing left, we teemed with lice and if the US troops had come one week later, the typhoid fever would have killed the whole camp. On May 1, one day before our liberation, we were entrained to be transported. One hundred and fifty prisoners were put into a railway car. Here in the scuffle capos beat people in the head with clubs. Those hit died immediately with open, bloody skulls. In spite of being entrained, they could not transport us, since we were encircled by the Americans and the next day the train was open and we were taken back to the camp. During the opening of the 8th railway car the SS-men escaped, since they did not have time left. Thanks to the US troops we were liberated on May 2.

After being liberated we were taken to Haggenau, another camp, but here we were treated very well. We spent ca. six weeks here, then the Americans took us to Vittenburg where the English took over us. We spent three weeks here and then left for Lüneburg by car, then Dannenberg. Here we spent only 3 days, then we were taken to Bergen-Belsen. We left on September 17 with a Romanian transport and arrived in Budapest on September 29. We travelled to Prague by car and then continued the journey in cattle cars. 

As for my future plans, I would like to go the America as soon as possible, where my uncle has been living since his childhood.