The person in question has given us the following information: 
I started my labour service in Vác in May 1942. From here I was sent to Jászberény then to Vác, to Esztergom and finally to Tallós. I worked here as a tailor. I was working in the tailor workshop of the company and my situation was tolerable. Food was scarce, but clandestinely I worked for the peasants and this way I was always able to get some extra food.  I spent so much time here that eventually I knew the situation very well and I thought I could make it until the end of the war. On January 23, 1944 food was distributed for eight days and we immediately knew that the next day we would be taken away.  Eight of us conspired not to leave with the company, but to escape that night. We hid in a bunker and stayed there for five days. Unfortunately our company lagged behind and when we left our shelter we were captured. We were taken to the headquarters to Szombathely. The lieutenant colonel wanted to execute us, but due to the intervention of Lieutenant Vas we were only convicted for six weeks of imprisonment. After serving our time we were sent back to Tallós. As we got there the factory was being evacuated and the company was about to leave. The factory was taken over by the SS and they wanted to take us to Tatzmannsdorf. However the railway line was destroyed by bombardments, thus we spent four to five weeks in the freight cars, since as we arrived in a camp we were not received, because the camp was packed. We also had 80 cars full of clothes that we had brought from Tallós. It was a hassle, since we had to reload them again and again as freight cars were needed. The treatment during the journey was very bad. We were constantly beaten and given hardly anything to eat. Luckily we managed to steel from the cloth stacks as many pieces as we could and we could exchange the clothes for food. Finally we arrived in Tatzmannsdorf. The factory was set up again here. By the time we had finished it, we had to disassemble it again, since the Russians were very close. Later we were carried further but this time without the factory that was never set up again. The stacks of clothing were carried with us through Graz, Bruck and Admonton. We could not move for days; Himler personally visited us and gave an order to execute all Jews. We were taken to Klagenfurt under close confinement; we were to be executed there. Luckily the train was late and due to the constant air raids we arrived in Klagenfurt only on May 7. By that time the English had taken over the place. Our joy was curbed when we realised that they wanted to take us to forced labour, since they said they had not been given special instructions regarding the Jews, therefore they had to treat us like citizens of an enemy state.  Eventually the Palestine Regiment settled that we did not have to work and we were given food and clothes.  
 After many ordeals I returned home. I am still waiting for my wife about whom I learned that she is on her way home and then I would like to emigrate to Palestine with her.