The person in question has given us the following information:

Some days after the German invasion we were ordered to wear a yellow star. Three weeks later we 
were taken to the ghetto and another three weeks later to the brickyard. Some streets were marked 
out to make a ghetto, where we lived crammed together with our families. It was forbidden to go 
out from the ghetto. There were raids all day long when they looked for foreign citizens and rich 
Jews. When they found people of this kind, they took them to the brickyard without asking further 
questions. These raids were carried out by the local police. They beat the men all the time in front 
of our eyes. The Gestapo came in the ghetto and they behaved in a very nasty way. If somebody 
was not wearing a star he was beaten with a lash or he received 25 strokes. The Germans, just like 
the gendarmes, and the latter even more so, raped the young girls, who had to be taken to 
hospital. A soup kitchen was set up in the ghetto, but only few people used it, because everybody 
could cook in her own kitchen. At the end of those some weeks we had spent there, on one day at 
about 4 o’clock in the morning we were woken up by some big noise. By the time we looked out to 
see what was going on, the largest part of the ghetto had already lined up on the marketplace. 
Everybody had to be there by 9 o’clock and from there we set off with our heavy baggage to the 
brickyard. About 20,000 people started off like that. The others had been taken to the brickyard 
earlier and they had already been transported to Auschwitz. The number of those people was about 
6,000-7,000. Our march from the marketplace to the brickyards was very difficult. The gendarmes 
were hitting us and hurrying us. The older people and those who could not keep pace were 
left on the road unconscious or beaten and full of blood. We were not allowed to help them 
even with an outstretched arm. The police commissioner of the town was awaiting us at the gate 
of the brickyard and, apart from him there were Colonel Dr Fehér and some new gendarmes. The 
latter also hit us if we went to the brickyard a little slower than they wanted.
We were accommodated in barracks built of bricks and we slept on straw. On that day they gave us 
some soup and bread to eat. The Germans collected the jewellery, the money and the more valuable 
things we still had with us. Nobody resisted, because we were threatened with the death penalty if 
we had kept the smallest valuable possession. 
Men from the age of 15 were taken to do exercises in front of the barracks, but it was impossible to 
watch how they were being tortured. The helpers of the Red Cross were on the alert all the time, 
but they could hardly cope with so much work. We spent about 3-4 days in the brickyard, then they 
started to move transports away. Before the entrainment we lined up next to the gate, where they 
took everything away from us starting with our papers and left us only the most necessary pieces of 
underwear and clothes. They found money on an old man; they took him in the office and some 
minutes later he came out beaten to a pulp and he had to stand in front of us as a deterrent. It was 
already 12 o’clock at noon when the entrainment finished, but the cattle car started only at 4 
o’clock in the next morning. 60-70 people travelled squeezed together in a cattle car without 
any water. Food was running short. The SS took over at Kassa. Nothing special happened during 
the journey, only one man was shot dead, because he stuck his head out of the small window 
of the cattle car out of curiosity.  Some people died on the way, but they were taken out of the 
train only in Auschwitz. 

We arrived in Auschwitz after about 4 days of travelling. Our belongings that we still had were 
taken away from us immediately and we were selected in a way that the old people, the children 
and the ill were stood aside from the able-bodied ones. They did not do the same to every transport; 
there were transports in which there was no such separation, but the whole transport was taken 
directly to the crematorium. We, who were able to work, were taken to the bath, where they shaved 
us completely and they took away even those clothes we were wearing. After bathing we received 
shabby grey clothes and a pair of odd shoes which were also poor. By the time we finished in the 
bath it was already 4 o’clock in the morning and the whole camp was lined up for roll call, 
including us, of course. After Appell we were distributed to barracks. First, we were taken to the 
Gypsy camp, but some days later they moved us to Camp C. Our beds were bunks; in the beginning 
8-10 people slept on a berth, later 10-14 people were squeezed together with only one blanket. Our 
daily provisions comprised the following: in the morning they did not give us anything to eat, at 
noon we got some thick soup or a vegetable dish made of green leaves, full of sand. In spite of 
being hungry it was sometimes impossible to eat those meals. For dinner everybody received 150 
grams of bread and sometimes some margarine or salami, other times a spoonful of jam. 
There we worked only for two weeks right before our leave. Our task was to break and carry stones 
with which they mended the roads. The weather was very bad: sometimes it rained for days and of 
course, on such days we could swim in the barracks. Since the above-mentioned berths were 
overcrowded they always collapsed and until they were repaired we spent the nights sitting on 
stones. There were many people who could not bear that life, as a consequence about 10-20 
people died every day. 
They selected us every day. That meant that everybody had to line up in front of the block and then 
Dr Mengele, Grese, Drechsler and some other SS women appeared, who selected people for 
transports or to be taken to the crematorium. 
Pale, thin or too fat people were selected for the crematorium. Time went by like that in Camp C, 
until on one day we were also selected for work and 150 of us went with a transport to 
Reichenbach. We worked for 8 months there. We received provisions in the factory and we were 
satisfied. The foremen tried to be nice to us and helped us despite that it was strictly forbidden. The 
SS women were all the more evil to us. They reported to the Kommandoführerin for the smallest 
trifle and the punishment was either that everybody had to line up for roll call or they cut the hair 
off the one who was reported against, or she was sent to forced labour.  
In the beginning we lived in barracks, which belonged to the factory and were close to it. Later our 
accommodation was moved to a sport school, which lay 7 kilometres away from the factory. There 
were other prisoners too. Our Kommandoführer called Mrs Schneider, who treated us very badly. 
She punished us the most seriously for the smallest thing. The winter passed with many difficulties. 
Most of the people had no shoes, and they went to the factory barefoot. 
When the Russian frontline moved closer, around 15th February, we had to leave the city. The day 
before, a strong air raid reached the factory, but among us nobody was harmed. After one week of 
marching we had a rest in Trautenau, and from there we travelled to Pforta in open freight cars. It 
was continuously snowing on the way. We were squeezed together in small coal freight cars. 65 of 
us travelled in one freight car. We arrived in Pforta dirty and filthy. There we worked in a factory, 
which was built about 8 floors deep inside a mountain. There were different valuable machines 
stored in this factory. We were made to work there only to be busy. The work was the same as in 
the previous factory. The foremen always brought us fresh news, which corresponded to the facts. 
When the English came in it was no surprise for us, because we had been informed already. Since 
the nearby town was continuously bombed we were suddenly transported from there. About 1,000 
people set off together and after some hours of travelling 400 of us were detached and we were 
taken to Fallersleben. We did not hear anything about the others. We were completely exhausted 
when we arrived in Fallersleben. The factory we lived in was absolutely modern, but it had been 
destroyed by bombs. We did not work there at all. Some days later we went to Salzwedel together 
with those who had been there before. The Americans arrived some days later. That day remains 
unforgettable for us. The French prisoners of war helped the Americans provide us with everything 
wonderfully. Those SS men who were with us had been ordered to set fire to the camp at the last 
moment. They refused to do it and tried to escape in the last moment. They did not succeed. All of 
them were caught and they were taken to the headquarters. They gave us permission to pillage 
freely. The ill were taken to hospital immediately, while we were taken to the garrison of the 
airport some days later. We stayed there for two days. The Czech transports set off first. 200-250 
people were sent to Prague by car with one transport.  
Regarding our future plans, we want to settle down in Prague and work there.