The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on October 4, 1943 in Mohács. I joined company no. 4/3. I was taken to Pécs, to the Military Office for Food Distribution. We had to carry heavy sacks and crates, but the food was good and we were treated well. When the Russians and the English started to bomb Hungary in the spring of 1944, the company was taken to various railway stations to clear rubble. We had a new guard unit by that time, the members of which were beating us. When the Szálasi government seized the power, the treatment became even worse. Moreover the Arrow Cross completely robbed us. Eventually the guards took us to Sopron where we were handed over to the Germans. 

We were taken to Schattendorf, five kilometres from Sopron. We were lodged in a school building and we could even heat it. The Austrian population was indescribably good to us. The women were waiting for us at their doors whenever we were going to work or were coming home. They hid cakes and bacon under their aprons. They filled up our canteens with hot meal. When we wanted to exchange something for food, they gave us the food and did not accept anything for it. The Lagerführer himself told the people of the village to give us a piece of bread. Our official rations were as follows: a piece of sausage or margarine in the morning, potato soup at noon, one litre of potato or bean soup in the evening and 33 decagrams of bread. We were digging antitank ditches. A certain amount of work was assigned for six days, but we could perform that in four and a half days. Every tenth day was a resting day. There was enough water, so we could wash ourselves. We were disinfected twice. 

At the end of March, when the Russians were approaching Sopron, the camp was evacuated. The sick stayed there. I do not know what happened to them. We were marching for a few days at normal pace: we were not chased. We spent the nights outdoors. On the fourth day we were entrained and after three days of travel we arrived in Mauthausen. 

We spent two weeks here. We were starving, but we were in a relatively better condition than the other labour servicemen and therefore we did better. On the other hand, it was much harder for us to endure the beating and the cruel treatment, since we were not accustomed to it. Many died in Mauthausen, but even more in Günskirchen. It was an annihilation camp and its purpose was to destroy the prisoners. The Americans liberated us on May 4.