The person in question has given us the following information:

We lived carefree in Várpalánka with my parents and 5 brothers and sisters when Germans 
invaded the country. My father was a tradesman. Várpalánka was an ethnic German village 
and locals kept inciting invading Germans against us. At night the Gestapo broke into flats, 
robbed and plundered and smashed everything into pieces. They always wanted to have fun 
with young girls, so they took them away and abused them. They also broke into our 
house and my poor sisters had to always escape.

Two days after Easter gendarmes dragged us from Várpalánka to Munkács. We had a terrible 
life here. Two ### practised well-conceived tortures on men. They had to crawl on the ground 
for hours before food was distributed; they had to do disciplining exercises till they collapsed 
of tiredness. I remember the first name of one of the SS men: Otto. 

In May, they deported us into Auschwitz. All the eight of us were selected for the transport. 
61 people were placed in a freight car. We arrived during the day. There was an awful chaos, 
we did not even see each other, I only noticed that my mother and two of my 12-13-year-old 
brothers were sent to the left side. Of course, I wanted to keep with them but Mengele said 
that my mother should go by car because she would not be able to make the 60-kilometre-
long walk. He promised that we would be together with our relatives anyway and tore my 
hand off my mother’s hand telling me that I could still walk. Although the Polish and 
Slovakians told us already that time that my mother and brothers were gassed, we did 
not want to believe them and got to know the bare truth only much later. 

We did not work in Auschwitz. The most horrible were the roll calls, which lasted for 4-5 
hours. These made us suffer more than hunger.

Finally, in August, we got into a transport of labourers and were taken into Unterlüss. In this 
small camp there were solely thousand women. We lived in wooden barracks and had the 
opportunity to keep them clean. The camp was in the middle of a forest in a nice place. 

We went to work into an ammunition plant. We went by train to the workplace. Work was 
difficult; we worked with rusty machines. We cleaned bombs and filled them up with yellow 
sulphate power. This made our hands and hair completely yellow; one can still see its mark.

In the evening we got one fifth of a loaf of bread, a soup and every second day a little piece of 
margarine. Yes, we starved a lot. At noon they gave us 2.5 decilitres of milk in the plant, 
otherwise we would not have endured doing this hard factory work. At the workplace they 
treated us well. But there was an SS woman in the camp who beat us terribly. She punished 
every trifle with 25 blows with the baton. We stayed in striped prisoner’s clothes and a single 
pullover during the whole winter. There were no coats. Although we received warm stocking 
the SS woman stole them. Once she made us undress and if she found out that someone lined 
her cap with a little rag she shot the person on the spot or beat her to death.

We escaped by cars from the English and travelled two hours to Bergen-Belsen but the 
English liberated us three days later.

Three of my brothers and sisters survived. Unfortunately, I do not know anything of my father 
who was in a camp.

I would very much like to emigrate to Erec.