The person in question has given us the following information: 

As soon as we arrived in Auschwitz I was separated from my mother and my younger brother. I was there together with my father, my other younger brother and my uncle. Then we went into the bath where everything was taken away from us. We got prisoner’s clothes, our heads were shaved, and then we took a bath and we were taken into the block. I had already known what happened to those who were separated from us. One of my sisters, who had been working as a nurse in one of the infirmaries there, told me that everyone should report for work and declare himself healthy and not sick, because all the others would be exterminated. I was staying in Auschwitz for three days together with the above mentioned family members. Prior to our leaving they took away our leather shoes and replaced them with shoes with wooden sole. I succeeded in selling my pair of good boots to a Czech Blockältester for cigarettes and butter. It made me happy that at least those were not taken away. During my stay in Auschwitz I was not working at all. We were entrained three days later. Our provisions consisted of two portions of bread, two portions of margarine and two portions of salami. Fifty of us were in a freight car and they handed up one litre of plain tea for each of us. The middle of the car was occupied by the guards, therefore the space left for us was so small that we could hardly move. We were not allowed to stand up all along the way. When we arrived at our destination, there was a huge storm. German civilians were staring at us as if we were bandits. Then we had to walk 19 kilometres. We finally arrived in Wolfsberg. After one day’s rest they asked us what our occupation was and we were appointed to firms accordingly. My father, brother, uncle and I were assigned to construction works, because we reported for carpentry work. Unfortunately, my father died after three weeks’ work. We had a very good Lagerälteste, who allowed my and my brother to sit Shiva for eight days. Later I was sent to kitchen duty for a short period, because people were constantly replaced there. Then I was assigned to the Unio Company where I worked as a carpenter at a bridge construction until October. Food supply was satisfactory: we got a quarter of a loaf of bread, two bowls of soup and two portions of Zulage every day. Every second Sunday was off, and then we had time to wash ourselves.
It was forbidden to be in rags. There were tailors and cobblers amongst us, whom we could get to repair our things. The Oberscharführer was a cobbler in private life and he did not let us walk in bad shoes. If he caught a prisoner wearing bad shoes, he would beat up that person. We were disinfected every five or six weeks. We got enough soap, washing powder and towels so that we would not be dirty. From there we were moved when the front was approaching. I fell ill and was taken to Dernchau. There was a three-storey-high building marked out for infirmary that was very dirty and full of lice. The patients got very little food. However, if they went out to work, they got more food. I went out to work as well after having been lying in bed for two days. At first I was carrying timber from the forest. Then I was working in a work unit that loaded rails. It went on like this until 7 May when I was liberated by the Russians.