The person in question has given us the following information:

The seven Jewish families living in Kovászó were farmers. My parents owned about 21 acres of land, a vineyard and a house. We lived under good financial circumstances.
A couple of days after the German occupation we heard that they started to round up the Jews from the neighbouring villages. Hearing that, we started to pack. One day gendarmes showed up and ordered us to pack quickly. They took away our money and all of our valuables. They took us into the ghetto of Beregszász by car. The ghetto was set up in a brickyard where we lay on the ground in barracks. The ghetto surrounded by a fence was guarded by gendarmes; the internal order of the ghetto was maintained by the Jewish police. We had a soup kitchen and we went out to work regularly. We heard that we would be kept there for two or three weeks and then they would let us go home. Of course, it did not happen like that. Following a search, we went on foot to the railway station three kilometres away where we were entrained. Sixty-five people were put into a freight car. We were given bread, but no water. We got water only in Kassa, thanks to the labour servicemen. Nobody from our group died in the car. A boy attempted to flee, but he was captured. In Kassa the Germans took over the train and they opened up the doors the first time.
On the morning of May 15 we arrived in Auschwitz. Prisoners in striped clothes received us. Upon getting off, they separated me from my mother. After that, they took us into a bath where they shaved our heads and we got sleeveless grey dresses. They took away the better pairs of shoes and we got wooden shoes in exchange. I was sent to the camp B where 1200 of us were put into a block and 14 of us lay on a bunk. We got very bad food supply. We were awakened at 3 in the morning. There was a roll call in the morning and in the evening as well. We spent three weeks there, then 1000 women were tattooed and taken to work. I was assigned to sort the luggage of the deportees in Brzezinka. The commander of the crematorium often came there to supervise our work. On one occasion we did not notice him coming.  There was a woman lacing her shoes, and he beat her up so severely that she could hardly move after it. Another time we changed our grey dress for clothes we found there. When he noticed that, he undressed us completely and threatened to punish us. He also told he would take us into the crematorium if we did that once again. We were unable to eat for a week, because we were so close to the chimneys that we could constantly see the flames. We could also see how they undressed the deportees in the yard of the crematorium before they took them into the building in rows of five. An SS officer was riding around on horseback. In the beginning there must have been too little gas in the chambers, because we could often hear the poor victims wailing who did not lose their consciousness. Men working there told us that they often brought half-dead people out of the gas chamber. There was a hole to burn the corpses in, because the capacity of the crematoria was not enough to cremate so many dead bodies. One evening we could see a transport as we were coming home from the camp. They set us aside; however, we saw how the SS men were kicking old people and set dogs on them.
I was working for six months in Brzezinka and then I was taken to a weaving factory. There we had to work very hard for 12 hours a day. They often revised our work and they always beat us. Our food supply was turnip soup, coffee and one-sixth of a loaf of bread without Zulage. I was working two days in the weaving factory, and then I was taken to another work unit; here we had to push trams. That time it was very cold: we could hardly work with our frostbitten hands and feet. Fortunately, I spent only two weeks there. After that I was put to a transport and taken to Bergen-Belsen.
Our journey lasted for two days. We got some bread and three portions of margarine for provisions. Upon our arrival they housed us in blocks: 1200 people in each. There was no room for us and people were lying on each other. The building was extremely dirty and full of lice. Corpses were lying everywhere. The daily food supply was only half a litre of soup. We did not see either bread or Zulage for a month. Our only activity was going for lunch. Roll calls were held only once a week.
The English liberated us on April 15. They took me to Zelle where I spent six weeks. There were Americans in Zelle, who gave us food parcels and provided us with everything we needed. I came home with a Czech transport; the journey took 11 day. 
My plans for the future: at first I go home and I will wait for my father, who is on his way home.