The person in question has given us the following information:

My father was a poor knife-grinder, we sustained the family with my younger brother.
In the spring of 1944, a day after Easter, they closed us into the ghetto. We lived in constant 
terror. When Gestapo men appeared they always found fault with the cleanness of flats. 
Although there was a soup kitchen in the ghetto living on the food it provided meant starving 
to death. My younger brother was a policeman inside the ghetto, and we could get hold of 
some food with his support, if not, we would have starved as the others did. They got an order 
to bring us to work. Around the 15th of May, they moved us into a brick factory together with 
the few belongings we still had. Here, we suffered a lot as we could keep only a piece of cloth 
and a little bread, but we had to endure beatings also for that. Before entrainment they ordered 
the commanders of the freight cars to get off and warned them that they would be shot 
together with the whole carload of people unless people produced all their valuables. To give 
more weight to these words they shot in the air. They blindfolded one of my relatives and 
threatened to shoot him unless he handed over the valuables he still had. Our transport 
was the second one. They entrained 70 of us in a freight car, and gave water to us at 
departure. Germans took charge of us in Kassa, where they gave us water again.
Three days later during the morning we arrived in Auschwitz. We left there the luggage as 
they promised to carry them. Nevertheless, we wanted to bring them but were not allowed. I 
was selected for the group of people fit for work. They led us into the baths. After the bath 
and the haircut they gave us a piece of cloth, which they marked with red stripes. We could 
keep only the bad shoes we had. When we were already sweaty again they chased us to the 
yard, and hours later they lodged us in Camp C, block 232, where I spent a night. There was 
such a hubbub that the Blockälteste threatened to shoot us. We were standing all the night. 
We could not sit down. Many went mad or fainted. Finally, the next day I got into block 
21, where there were already bunks: 16-20 people shared one. Later, I went to block 15 where 
there were also 15 people on a bunk. Rations were awful: half a litre of watery soup, a little 
Zulag, and bread but you did not even have that much if you did not have a place in the first 
or at least the middle part of the queue. Block 16 was horrible; it was impossible to get food 
so I decided to leave it at any price, even if they put me in crematorium. The Blockälteste was 
a real beast and everyone tried to run away from her. Roll calls lasted from 4 am till 9 am but 
often until 11 am, and between 3 pm and 6 pm in the afternoon. 
Finally, a doctor selected me during one of the selections and I became part of a transport of 
labourers. We travelled for 5 days with provisions for 3 days, 55 of us in a freight car.
In Salzwedel we entered an uninhabited block. By the time we prepared the block lunch got 
ready as well, and we had a lunch at 5 pm. The following day reveille was at 4 am and we 
stayed lined up in the court till 5:30 but by 6 am we already had to be at work. We worked for 
an ammunition plant making cartridges 12 hours a day in day and night shifts, swapping shift 
every week. 150 grams of bread, soup, and another soup in the evening was not sufficient, so 
we suffered a lot from hunger. They paid much attention to cleanness. They would beat us up 
if we were not clean enough but we could not have warm water. If your blanket was a little 
crumpled they would beat you up, that is, for any insignificant reason.
The 15th of April, the English liberated us. I heard that I had relatives in Bergen-Belsen, so I 
went there but unfortunately met no one. I stayed there for two months: Bergen-Belsen just 
got liberated, so we lived well. I was searching and waiting for someone to turn up, but finally 
I set off with a Czech transport without any result. We crossed Prague and Pozsony before we 
arrived in Budapest.
My future plans: Palestine!