The person in question has given us the following information:

They took me from the protected house at 46, Colombus Street. One morning the Arrow 
Cross men beleaguered the house and they took everybody to the field of the National Centre 
for High School Sports Clubs. From there they took us to 4, Teleki Square and then to 
Józsefváros railway station, where they entrained us.

97 people were crushed into one cattle car. We travelled for 18 days to Buchenwald. 32 
people died in the cattle car on the way. We got 30 grams of bread and 10 grams of cheese for 
a day. They gave us nothing to eat in the last five days. We got some water only three times 
during the whole journey. Hungarian pilots were housed by the railway in Budaörs, they 
helped a great many of us escape. A shopkeeper called Landesmann brought us food, which 
the gendarmes did not allow him to hand in through the window, but the pilots assisted him to 
smuggle it in. An SS lieutenant shot a man in Budaörs for having attempted to escape. 
Hungarian gendarmes escorted us on the way Ebenfurt. The gendarmes gave us 250 grams of 
bread in exchange for a ring or a watch or the like.

We arrived in Buchenwald on 25th December. There we were disinfected and they formed a 
railway building team from 500 people on 2nd January. The members of this team were 
entrained at the Buchenwald train station. Twenty-six of us were in a cattle car. Beds were 
installed there with two blankets, a table with tableware, and the most important was that 
when we entered, fire was lit in the small stoves standing there. They gave us a loaf of bread 
right away, than we started.

We went to Offenburg, Alsace-Lorraine, and we stayed there for 9 weeks. We repaired the 
rails. The frontline run 5 kilometres from there. We worked in the rattle of machine guns and 
continuous bombing. A lot of us died. The elderly and the sick were taken away, escorted by 
SS men.
 
We were taken to Ansbach by train. That was already the beginning of the withdrawal. From 
there we travelled to Fürth, where we also spent about a week. In Unzdorf we had to leave the 
train because the Americans were close. 

The Obersturmführer railway engineer summoned the SS men and said that it was Himmler’s 
order to blow up the train. He said he delivered the order, which they could carry out if they 
wanted to. Eight SS men offered to execute the order, but the others did not allow them to, 
saying that the Americans, who were already at our heels, would shoot them down too.  

We set forth to Dachau through Regensburg. We went on foot. 5 kilometres before the camp 
the SS man wanted to shot me dead, because I was no longer able to walk barefoot on the 
stony road. This was the march when they shot down Mr. Heilbrunn from Zenta and a lawyer 
called Dr Balog, from Léva. 

We arrived in Dachau on 27th April. We had to be waiting for 5 hours in front of the gate of 
the camp. Finally they took us over. They did not disinfect us and they did not give us 
anything to eat either. It was on the following afternoon that we got some food for the first 
time. 

They wanted to send us with a transport to Tirol to kill us there, but the Americans liberated 
us in the afternoon of 29th  April. 

I had confidence in that I would get home all the while. I believed that they would not manage 
to kill me, I was more afraid that a bomb would kill me by the rails. I remained optimistic in 
spite of the filth and the most miserable conditions (for example, we changed underwear in 
Dachau the first time). 200 of us survived from among the 500 people of the brigade. I am 
convinced that our psychological strength and desire for life greatly added to our survival. 
Five of us came home individually.