The person in question has given us the following information:


I was drafted to clear rubble at the municipal authority of the 5th district of Budapest on July 4, 1944. In the second half of October they took me to the Szárító Farmstead near Gödöllő. Foreman Lajkó treated us cruelly. It was ordered that rainy days should be kept as holidays. In spite of that he chased us out to work even in heavy rainfall. We had to walk eight kilometres to our workplace. He was urging us to work all the time and demanded extra performance. He always threatened to shoot us down and to set the Arrow Cross on us. He was constantly walking among us with a loaded gun. Our next stations were Soroksár and Dunaharaszti where we built trenches. We spent a night in the synagogue of Kőbánya under the supervision of gendarmes. The following day the Arrow Cross took us to the brickyard in Óbuda.
From there we were taken to the centre of the congregation on Wesselényi Street. Then we were taken into the ghetto in groups. I was sent to 3 Kazinczy Street. My Papal protective document was delivered to me there and afterwards I moved into the Papal protected building at 30 Pozsonyi Road.
The police took me away once again from that house into a Teleki Square building that served as a collecting site. We marched to the Józsefváros railway station escorted by policemen and we were taken over by the gendarmes there. They locked up 70-75 people in each freight car and set off the train for Hegyeshalom.
Starving, thirsty and locked up in the cars we arrived in Hegyeshalom after eight days of travel. There they practically smuggled the transport through the German border. The Germans eased our situation, because they immediately gave us food and they promised that they would treat us humanely if we worked hard. It took us five days to travel to Bergen via Weimar. They provided us with some food, which saved us from starving to death, but it was far from being enough.
We arrived in Bergen-Belsen on December 13. There we were assigned to a barrack camp. Six hundred people were housed in each barrack; we slept on straw mattresses on bunks. Two people had to share one bunk that was no more than 80-90 centimetres wide. The food was terrible. We got three decilitres of plain coffee for breakfast and boiled turnips with a minimal amount of fat for lunch. The dinner was warm soup twice a week, but every other day it was just plain coffee. The bread rations were 25 decagrams in the beginning, but they were gradually decreased to 8-10 decagrams. In fact there were days when we got no bread at all and they gave us a few potatoes instead. When the dinner was coffee, we got 30-40 grams of sausages, low-fat cottage cheese or marmalade. Many people died of starvation that was similar to freezing to death. I mean: the prisoner went to bed in the evening, she even talked to her fellows and then she never woke up. Typhus epidemic raged amongst the Dutch prisoners and a few of us caught it as well. Many of us fell seriously ill with diarrhoea and oedema, which is the swelling of the feet and the face caused by the high level of liquid in the body and the lack of vitamins. Every person lost 15-30 kilograms on average after a few weeks. It happened that SS men hit innocent people in the head so hard that they died.
We were starving severely. Once a 22-year-old man snuck out at night and he stole turnips from around the kitchen. He was caught and shot dead, then all the prisoners had to march there looking at his body so that we would learn from his example. When the Americans were approaching, they wanted to take us to Theresienstadt. One thousand five hundred people were set off with the first transport and I was among them.
The train stopped midway between stations near Fallersleben. The engine was taken away, half of the guards escaped, therefore discipline somehow began to relax. I took the opportunity and went to the nearest village to get some food. We were living on raw turnips and almost all of us fell ill due to that diet. I was informed in the village that the Americans were coming. I rushed to the road and I hugged the first armoured trooper I met. Then I guided the tank to the train standing midway between stations through a forest. Due to that, they could encircle the guards and liberate us. The guards who tried to resist were shot dead. One of the guards was hit in the head with a rifle butt. The crowd of prisoners was shouting and cheering with joy.
The American soldiers distributed chocolate to the women and children and cigarettes to the men, and they felt for us in our happiness.