The person in question has given us the following information:

I was drafted for labour service on 5th October 1942 and I was taken to Timót Street in Pest as a 
skilled labourer on 15th November. A bomb attack reached the bound on 3rd April 1944, because 
of which we were moved to Csillaghegy. I stayed there up till the end of November. Our labour 
service guards were soldiers, who behaved very nicely. We had a sergeant called Lajos Horváth, 
who fulfilled all our requests. He gave us leaves on public holidays. Whatever we asked for or 
whatever we mentioned, he arranged it, he did his best to do everything in our interest. I received 
the safe conduct in Csillagegy and I went to a protected company. Meanwhile my cousin arrived 
with company 101/57 from Erdély, then I requested to be taken to his company. We lived relatively 
quietly for 3 weeks. Around 20th November they took us to a bombed-out house in Gömb Street; 
we went to work for Hungarian Railway Company. We spent 3-4 days there altogether. That is, 10 
young men were assigned to carry bricks at Nyugati railway station. They went there with the air 
raid warden, without wearing a yellow star. A lieutenant stopped them on the way and asked who 
they were. Our leader, of course, told him the truth, namely that we were labour servicemen. He 
ordered that these people had to be taken to Garrison Albrecht immediately and if only one would 
be missing, our leaders had to be shot dead. In spite of this, one man from the group of 10 people 
escaped by the time they arrived at the Albrecht. He, at the same time, sent 20 soldiers to us; they 
came being lead by a warrant officer. He gave them the same order to take us to Garrison Albrecht. 
That is how I got to Garrison Albrecht, from where they took me to be entrained at Ferencváros 
railway station on 1st December. They crammed 70 people in a cattle car and they sent us off 
supplied with a loaf of bread weighing 1 kilo. They did not give us any water and we were not 
allowed to open the window of the cattle car either. On our arrival at Hegyeshalom we received 1 
quarter of a litre of soup and 50 grams of bread. From there we travelled to Zurndorf. It was already 
Austrian land and we felt that we had just arrived at the big secret, where we would get to know 
what would actually happen to us. The train took us directly to Sachsenhausen.
We arrived there on Sunday night and they chased us from the train to the camp with beating us 
strongly. The bathing started immediately, but my turn was only on the next day. We got nothing to 
eat until the bathing was over. They took everything away from us in the bathhouse. I gave my 
watch to a Russian prisoner in exchange for a flask of water, since they were not allowed to give us 
water. They cut our hair and gave us a thin pair of underpants for our own clothes, a thin shirt a pair 
of striped trousers and a striped jacket. We got clogs instead of shoes. After bathing they took us to 
a block. 3,000 of us were there mixed with women, who were selected out from among us later. We 
slept in beds; of course, you should not think of soft warm beds, but wooden bunks. It snowed 
during the night. They woke us up at half past four in the morning, when it was still completely 
dark. We got a little soup, then came the Appell: they counted us, let us stand for about an hour, 
then we set off. We could not march in the clogs, we got stuck in the snow. The guards were 
beating us continuously, that is how they chased us along. We lost our clogs, and we rather took 
them off, because we could march much faster with cold feet. The clogs hindered us, which 
resulted in the most serious beating. We went to Oranienburg to the Hänkel Works. They took us in 
the airplane factory and drove us in a large cold hall. There we stayed until the next day. It was so 
cold there that we almost died of frost. On the following day they selected 1,500 people, whom a 
doctor examined one by one. Those, whom they found acceptable they took to the bath again. I also 
belonged to that group. They gave us shoes after bathing and entrained us in the morning. Before 
the entrainment they gave us some tea and we started our journey at 10 o’clock in the morning, 50 
people in each cattle car. Of course, they chased us up in the cattle car by beating us. The train 
stopped in the evening and they gave us as a gift 4 slices of bread and margarine and a little cheese. 
The menu was the same on the next day too. We were travelling throughout the night and we 
arrived at our destination in the morning. They made us get off, they beat us and hit us again; we 
did not know where we were. After a one-kilometre-long march we reached the camp. A physician 
received us in the camp and he asked everybody whether the prisoner was able to work or not. 
Then they took a list and numbered everybody. I got number 362. The number was written on our 
arms in ink pencil. I was sent to block 20 and they took me to work already on the following day. 
The daily work was railway building and wood cutting. They always found our speed of working 
too slow and urged us with blows. That camp was in Ohrdruf. To my bad luck, I was always put in 
different groups, which meant that nobody knew me, which resulted in series of beatings. If 
somebody worked a little slower than the others, he was beaten with a 3 meters long stick. Once I 
was taken to bury corpses. We dug up the pit and the others brought the corpses. When we were 
ready, they were beating us for at least an hour, then they wrote down our numbers and we got 
dinner. They put together another transport on 12th February and they took people to the baths. 
Then I went to the infirmary. #
When I had recovered, I was put to a transport and I was taken to Kravinkel with that group. In the 
beginning I lived in Bunkerlager 57, later in the Halle. We worked at a building area 15 kilometres 
from where we lived. Our job was pushing trolleys. Sometimes one or two trolleys turned over, 
which resulted in terrible beatings. It often happened that people died on those occasions. I was hit 
with a butt in March so strongly that they had to take me back to Ohrdurf, where a French surgeon 
operated on me in the hospital. The operation was done on the 1st and we were evacuated on 3rd. 
Since I was ill, I went to Kravinkel alone and dared to go in a peasant’s house. The farmer came in 
the morning and asked: "Was ist los?!" I told him that the guards had left me and since my legs 
hurt, I stayed there all day long. On the next day, he took me by car. I did not know where we were 
going, so I was asking him crying throughout the journey where he was taking me and asked him 
not to hand me over to any kind of authority. He took me to a small hut by the rails and drop me off 
there. At around 8 o’clock in the morning of 5th an SS man came, who fired his gun twice, then 
grabbed my hand and carried me along the whole city, looking for my group. Since he could not 
find them, he gave me to the police. There I was given some boiled potatoes and some bread. On 
9th at noon a member of the Hitlerjugend came, he pointed at me with his gun and asked: Are you 
coming, or staying? He dragged me with him to a small camp, which the Americans entered 
already on the following day.

My aim is to go to America!