The person in question has given us the following information:

I was placed in Sárvár to work as a doctor there. The 3rd of July, 1944, I was examining 
patients when they took me into the internment camp of Sárvár. Three days later I was already 
in Auschwitz.

We travelled in freight cars. There were 55 of us in our car, three persons died. They were 
elderly and sick. I could not save them although I had taken medicine with me and also gave 
them. When we arrived they grouped doctors separately but only to grab our medical cases 
and medicine. There were eight of us doctors, and a few were sent to death immediately.

The rest of us got into the baths where they cut our hair off, depilated our bodies and seized 
all our clothes. We could keep only the shoes. They gave us bad clothes in return.

I did not do medical work. My days passed like the days of all the others: staying lined up for 
roll calls and doing all kind of dirty jobs.

The 14th of September, they took us into the camp of Mattenheim (close to Hühldorf bei Inn). 
The transport was made up of 1,000 people, out of whom there were 92 doctors. Work was 
very hard. We did not work as doctors either here. Most of us carried heavy sacks of cement 
weighing 50 kilos.

Rations equalled to daily 1,000-1,100 calories (there was need for 4,500 calories a day). Most 
people died of exhaustion, which meant that they starved to death. Enteritis was very frequent, 
understandably, since people ate all sorts of waste also from the rubbish heap.

At the end of November, I became seriously sick. I had heart problems, purulent inflammation 
on the feet, and I had also enteritis. I was put in hospital and since the time I recovered (ca. 
the beginning of December) I worked as a doctor till the liberation of May the 2nd.

After liberation I transferred the most severely sick people – 140 out of 350-400 patients – 
into the American hospital. If they had remained in the old infirmary at least 80 percentage of 
them would have died in three weeks. This way, not even 10 percentage of them died, the 
people you could not save any more.

In the hospital I was unable to change the bandage on severely suppurating wounds 
sometimes even for 6-8 days because I had no lint. And the lint what I did receive sometimes 
was like paper rubbish, so it fell off as soon as I put it on the wound.

I received once or twice a week 3-6 pills to share between 300 patients. This was all the 
medicine I had, what I had to divide between them. I could not give medicine for fevers lower 
than 39 C degrees. I could have saved the life of many of my patients with a few drops of 
opium but I did not have any. I had to watch powerlessly the way they died.

Until I did not work as a doctor I suffered a lot. Whoever did not move fast enough was 
beaten. They did not regard age or physical condition.

There were also some nicer Todt-supervisors. These were German Communists. They talked 
sincerely with us and even brought us newspaper. One of them tried to assign doctors easier 
positions.

After the liberation all Germans appeared to be friends of Jews but I am convinced that all 
remained Nazis. If you got a bit closer to them – and as a doctor I had the opportunity for 
that – the mask that showed them as humanists, friends of Jews, and philanthropic people, fell 
off. 

I saw when German prisoners were taken away in the streets of Munich and people 
encouragingly waved them in secret. I do not know whether they are waiting for Hitler’s 
return or just believe in the immortality of Nazism.

My medical, human experience is that a German can only be an SS even if he or she 
wants to be another person.