The persons in question have given us the following information: 

On November 4, 1944 Arrow Cross men turned up in the house and rounded up the men. We were taken to the Tattersaal and from there to the Dohány Street synagogue.  All of our belongings were confiscated here and we were taken to the Óbuda brick factory. The next day we were set off on foot for Hegyeshalom. Here we were handed over to the Germans, who took us to Zürndorf. The march was terrible: we had to sleep outdoors even in the pouring rain; all we got to eat was a little soup on every third day and a loaf of bread on every fifth day. Stepping out of the line was prohibited upon penalty of death. We arrived in Zürndorf on November 14. We were put into closed cattle cars and we were provided with a kilogram of bread and some margarine. Before getting on, we got a bowl of soup. 

We arrived in Neuengamme on November 18. The SS dragged us out of the cattle cars with bloodhounds and they beat us up. One thousand two hundred men were driven into a cellar; the women were transported further by train. We were undressed here, all of our belongings were taken away and our hair was cropped. 

#####

On November 22, 250 of us were put onto a barge and after travelling half a day we arrived in Hamburg, to the Stülkenswerft ship factory. Here we performed welding and rubble clearance until March 28 in night shifts: from 6 pm to 6 am. Afterwards we had to line up for roll call until 8-8:30 am. Work was very hard and the foremen beat us without any reason. Daily rations: nothing in the morning, some watery soup at noon and 20 decagrams of bread and one decagram of margarine in the evening. 

On March 28 we were transported to another ship factory: the Deutsche Werft. Here was a camp for about 600 people: prisoners from different nations. Here we stayed under terrible circumstances. For two days we were transported to our working place by train, but on the second day a big air raid destroyed both the railway and the factory. Six comrades spending that day in the camp hospital died. Since our lodging was destroyed, 300 of us were put into a barrack, where there was enough space for only 100 people. It had no roof, door or windows. We were on top of each other; six on a straw mattress treading on each other. We cleared rubble for eight days while being constantly beaten and terribly hungry. 

We were taken to Hamburg-Deassa-Ufer camp by ship. When we arrived there were already 2000-3000 prisoners in the camp. Our group consisted of 1500 people and we were squeezed into one hall. Only half of the transport got something to eat. We had to go down to the basement for food: we had to line up on the steep, narrow stairs. People were literally crushing each other to death. Many stayed there trampled to death.   

We were entrained the next day and travelled for seven days in sealed cattle cars. Food was provided only for three days, on the last four days we did not get anything to eat. Two corpses were loaded off our cattle car on the way. 

We arrived in Brenner-Vörder around April 23. Two hundred dead bodies were loaded off the train here; only 1200 of us remained. We were so exhausted that we had to be carried to San Bostel in trolleys. The camp was full of lice. Typhoid fever broke out and claimed 100-150 lives every day out of the 10,000 inmates. The corpses were not buried; they were lying in the yard, sometimes 500-600 dead bodies thrown at each other. The Germans escaped on the last week: only a few guards stayed with us. They did not supply us whatsoever. Hundreds died every day of hunger, fatal exhaustion and typhoid fever. On May 5 the liberating US army arrived.