The persons in question have given us the following information: 

The Hungarian gendarmes showed up in early May 1944 and squeezed us into the synagogue of Huszt. Later they took us to the ghetto, which consisted of 11 streets in Huszt. The gendarmes treated us very badly. A Jewish merchant named Winkler was shot dead because the gendarmes found money in his shoes. József Bíró, a gendarme from Huszt was especially brutal to the Jews when they were going to the ghetto. After spending two weeks in the ghetto we were taken to the Huszt brick factory. We were guarded here by Hungarian ethnic Germans (Swabs), who beat the people all the time. After two weeks we were entrained and deported to Auschwitz via Kassa. There were 80 people in one cattle car. There was a bucket put into the cattle car for a toilet, but there was no water. We suffered a lot from the thirst on the way to Kassa, but then the Germans gave us water.  The journey to Auschwitz lasted four days. We ate what we brought with us. 
After our arrival to Auschwitz we were selected by Dr Mengele. The mothers were forewarned to save their lives by handing the babies over to the elderly. We were sent to the right and accommodated in camp C. We spent three months here. There was a selection in every two weeks in this camp at the roll call. They looked for the elderly and the overweight. This was an annihilation camp. After three months they put us into another camp where we spent another three months. During these six months we did not have to work, but the food was very scarce. 
One day an industrialist from Zittau, a certain Futscher, came to Auschwitz. He picked 500 able-bodied women and took us away. We manufactured aircraft parts 12 hours a day. Moreover we were forced to lift up heavy iron cases. For two months the owner provided us with food, but after that the SS took over us and from then on we starved a lot. The commanders gave us smaller amounts of food than they were supposed to. 
When the Russians were approaching, the factory was evacuated. A Wehrmacht soldier smuggled in a letter for us saying that we should try to escape, since the SS undermined the camp with dynamite. The camp was surrounded by electric barbed wire. When we saw the Russians approaching and the SS escaping, we started to run too. We hardly got anywhere before the Russians liberated us. It felt good to be free again. We escaped from the terrible slavery. The Russians immediately provided us with food: they gave us bread, canned food, etc. Due to the plentiful food we quickly gained our strength back. After eight days all four of us left. We covered 200 kilometres through mountains and valleys until we arrived in Reichenberg. There we caught a train and travelled to Budapest via Brunn and Vác. On the way we reached Huszt too; we found our flat completely plundered. The people of Huszt did not show too much hospitality and we did not find our families, so we thought it was not worth staying. Therefore we do not know yet what we are going to do.