The person in question has given us the following information

We lived in Repede and I was separated from my parents while still there. My four little siblings 
and I were taken to the Sajovits brickyard in Munkács. One of my brothers was hiding with 
Christian papers. We stayed in the brickyard for 3 weeks, then we were entrained and taken to 
Auschwitz. I was alone with the four small children and I had much trouble with them in the 
cattle car: they were thirsty, they were hot and they always asked for water, but I could not 
give them any. Three days later we arrived in Auschwitz.

At the train station in Auschwitz my four little siblings were separated from me and I was 
made to stand on the right side. I was left completely alone without parents, and now even 
without siblings; my heart ached to part with them and I cried a lot for them to be allowed to 
stay with me. Then an SS man and a Polish prisoner calmed me saying that I would meet 
them after bathing.
I was taken to the bath and I was given different clothes and shoes, then they put me into Camp A. I 
worked at the Kanadakommando for 2 weeks, then I was sent to the Aussenkommando, where we 
built roads and laid stones. The Slovak female block leader and a room supervisor called Magda 
were very nasty; they beat us. They beat us even if we went to the toilet or to fetch some water. We 
spent 6 months there. 
In the beginning of December we were taken from Auschwitz to Ravensbrück. I spent 3 weeks 
there; I was taken to quarantine and 3 weeks later they took me to Mahlhof.

In Mahlhof we went to work in an ammunition factory and we lived in a nice clean labour camp. SS 
men and women watched over us and if we did not give any reason for it, they did not do any harm 
to us. 

On 5th May 1945, when the Russians were approaching the camp was evacuated; we were 
marching for 5 days and on 10th May 1945 the Russians liberated us at Lübeck.
I fell ill, I got diarrhoea and I had pains in my heart. I went in a German flat and I was lying in bed 
there for 3 weeks. When I got better, the German owners of the flat sent me home. The other girls 
and I went 15 kilometres on foot and we spent another week at that place. Then, cars came by and 
took us 80 kilometres further. After that we went to Prague by train. In Prague the Red Cross took 
me to a sanatorium, where I spent 4 weeks, then I continued my journey towards Budapest. Here I 
met my brother, who could hardly wait for me to come. I will go to Munkács with him. In all 
probability we will stay there.