Fanny Günzenberger presents the following: 
My personal tragedy started in 1941, when they collected Jews of Polish origin in Hungary. 
That time, they took me and my parents, 5 brothers and sisters of mine and a great number of 
relatives. No one remained alive except for me. I managed to escape from Kamenetz-Podolsk 
before they shot all those enormous number of Jews. The way back was really horrible, I 
dared to walk only during the night in the bottom of ditches. During the day I hid in a stack of 
hay or in a stall. I ate what I found on the fields and in the woods, edible plants, carrots, and 
potatoes. For me, the suffering in Germany was not a surprise or a novelty. Finally, I managed 
to get back into Hungary, however I did not return to our village but worked for Jewish 
families in Ungvár. 
 
In 1943, when Germans entered the country, they constructed the ghetto in Ungvár soon, and 
all Jews had to enter it. We still lived well in the ghetto disregarding that they beat and 
interrogated richer Jews to find out where they hid their valuables. Around 6 weeks later, we 
were entrained and we arrived in Auschwitz after a three-day-long miserable journey. Here 
they immediately separated strong people suitable for hard work from the elderly, the young 
and the weak. They took us into the baths, seized our belongings, cut our hair, washed us, and 
let us stay nude in the cold room for hours before they gave us some ragged clothes. They led 
us into a barrack where there was empty place only on the ground. 
 
We spent all the time in Auschwitz queuing up for roll calls. From the morning till noon there 
was a roll call, then there was the roll call before lunch, and another two hours waiting in the 
afternoon. In between, the hut was cleaned and we were forced to stay in the open. There 
were frequent selections causing always terrible anxiety as we already knew what they meant, 
why flames were coming out of the chimneys of the crematorium day and night. Only 10 days 
passed before they selected me into a transport for work. They made me have another bath 
and put me on a train heading to Bergen-Belsen. We were glad that the two of us who knew 
each other still from Hungary could stay together, and that we got out of Auschwitz that 
meant constant anxiety. 
 
We did not have a better situation either in Bergen-Belsen. Food was extremely scarce, 
treatment was cruel. People were beaten up all the time. We had to do some awfully difficult 
work carrying heavy loads. Every day a lot of us died here. Luckily, we did not stay here long 
either but set off soon for Salzwedel. 
 
The lager in Salzwedel was small, altogether 1,300 women were kept here. They treated us 
less cruelly as in Bergen. Daily food comprised of half litre of black coffee in the morning 
and the evening, some watery vegetable soup at noon and 200 grams of bread. Sometimes we 
got 20 grams of margarine, or marmalade. We were awfully starving. We had a lot of work to 
do even if it was not so difficult. Mostly we shovelled sand and pebbles for 12 hours a day. 
Many died of exhaustion. Everyone was as thin as a skeleton. When Americans got closer 
they wanted to take us away but had no time to do so as Americans already arrived into the 
camp.