The persons in question have given us the following information: 

There were 6000 Jews living in Beregszász. They worked as craftsmen, tradesmen, physicians, lawyers, etc. I was a tailor and I made decent money. 

In 1939 my trade license was taken away and I had to work illegally, thus it was very difficult to make a living. These decrees were issued by the Hungarian authorities led by Mayor Dr Hubay. 

These measures drove the Jews into desperation and the situation was getting even worse. The ghetto was set up around April 16. The ghettoisation was carried out by the military gendarmes and the policemen; the ghetto was set up in the Vári brick factory. Of course there was a house search first. When the sad march moved along the streets, the Gentiles stood outside their houses and were happy about our tribulations. The ghetto was sealed off and guarded by the Hungarian gendarmerie and police. There were 12,000 Jews in the ghetto under terrible accommodation circumstances. We provided our own food; no one helped us. We were taken to town to work. Nobody informed us about what would happen to us. We tried to escape. As far as I remember there was one death, but it was a natural one.  Later there was a looting raid in the ghetto: the gendarmes robbed us of everything. 

We were entrained in the beginning of May 1944. There were 100 people in one cattle car and we were also given a few pieces of bread and some water. The train was headed to Kassa where the Germans took us over. No one died in our cattle car. It was impossible to escape, since the cars were sealed. 

We arrived in Auschwitz on May 14 after a long journey of suffering. Men and women were separated and the sick and weak were singled out. This work was performed by SS Head Physician Dr Mengele. The others were sent to the other side and we were taken to the bath: our hair was cropped, we were washed and they gave us striped uniforms. We were put into a block where we spent two days. On the first day we did not get anything to eat, on the second day we were given soup made out of potato peels.  In two days 55 people were put into a cattle car and they were taken to Buchenwald. We were counted and we spent 10 days here. There must have been ca. 1000 of us there.

We were taken further to Dora in 10 days. We deforested an area and built a camp on its place. It was hard work; many died, many were knocked down and the commander shot a lot of people without any particular reason. We slept on the bare ground: we were lying there and we were terribly cold, since we had no proper clothing and it was extremely cold in the woods. Later, when the blocks were eventually built, hunger broke out. They gave us only one-tenth of a loaf of black bread and three-quarter decilitres of soup a day. People died off in large numbers. Of the original 1000 prisoners only 150-200 survived. When the Russians got closer and they bombarded the camp, they put us into open freight cars and took us to Bergen-Belsen. When we arrived there we found the camp in a middle of a typhoid fever epidemic. We did not get anything to eat here either, they gave us only one-tenth of a portion of bread and two decilitres of warm water. There was no water, we could not wash ourselves. We were teeming with lice and we suffered a lot. 

We were here for three days and then we were taken further. Later we were liberated by the English. From then on we were doing well.