The person in question has given us the following information:

We were doing fine as long as we belonged to Czechoslovakia, but after the Hungarian occupation the time of suffering began for us.
There were 150 Jewish families in Gánya: all of them were poor working people. The Hungarians had already deported 40 families to Poland in 1941. Only 10 percent of them returned. I was called up for labour service, but I did not want to serve and therefore I escaped to Nagyvárad.
After the German occupation of Hungary I was put into the ghetto of Nagyvárad. The Gentile population in Nagyvárad acted in a very ugly way towards us. I gave all of my money to a Gentile person, who had a shop on Sánc Street, and two days later he did not even want to give me a piece of bread. Gendarmes escorted us to the freight cars and they closed up 80 people in each car. We were given only a bucket of drinking water. They opened up the freight cars in Kassa and handed us over to the SS.
The SS deported us to Auschwitz where 1500 of us were staying in a block that could hold only 240. We could hardly move, but they required us to be silent. We were lined up for roll call all day long.
At the end of May we were sent to Buchenwald where we were doing slightly better. 
In the first half of June they took us to Magdeburg with a transport. We were working in a petrol factory and on the second day bombers scored a direct hit on it. During the air raid the SS did not allow the Jewish workers to flee. People of other nationalities could escape by car and bicycle, only we were kept back. On this occasion we had 150 casualties.
Our food supply was not enough. We returned from the workplace at 6 pm, but we were given dinner and some bread only at 11. Reveille was at 3, plus there was an air raid warning at 12:30 am every night. We were awake for 18 hours a day and therefore we could never sleep enough or have a rest.
Five hundred fifty of us were sent back to Buchenwald with a transport of the ill. Four hundred were taken to the crematoria in Auschwitz. I stayed in Buchenwald and worked at a railway construction site.
I was transported from Buchenwald to Dachau by train. Allied aircrafts launched an attack on the train and the half of the prisoners perished. One hundred fifteen of us were in a freight car and we got no food for three days. We got off at Tachau (Sudetenland) and we marched for three more days before we reached Flossenbürg. After eight days of travel in freight cars many people could not walk, and therefore they were shot dead on the spot. From there we were marching for eight days to Dachau, which is a 300-kilometre-long journey. On the way we got only three or four raw potatoes to eat. Naturally all of us got sick. On the fourth day I escaped near a German village. I slept in the house of an old peasant woman, who gave me food. The following morning an acquaintance of the old woman came and immediately reported me. They captured me and I was handed over to the commander of our transport, who immediately shot dead one of the five who had escaped. The rest, including me, had to work all day as a punishment. We had to bury those who could not walk any more and were shot. We put 10 people into each hole. From there they took us to Dachau where we were finally liberated by the Americans.