The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived in Budafok with my parents, I commuted to Budapest to work, as did most of the Jews 
who lived here. Five to six hundred Jews lived in Budafok, usually in good financial 
conditions. We also had a little house, and almost everybody among the Jews had a little 
house with one or two rooms and a little garden. When the ghetto was to be set up, we could 
not hide anything there in the village, because most of the residents were ethnic Germans, and 
they had for a long time been rather hostile to us. Whoever had the chance had already placed 
a few valuable things, money or jewellery with acquaintances or friends in Budapest. But for 
most the only property they had was the little house and the not very valuable furniture, which 
was however irreplaceable for us. The ghetto was demarcated in a street of the village. We 
had enough place there and were also allowed to go out. All this lasted for only a week, and 
was not very serious. One morning, however, gendarmes gathered the Jews and led us into the 
school building. There they would already beat everybody horribly. Whoever did not fit in the 
school had to spend the night outside, in front of the school. It happened to rain the whole 
night, and whoever got stuck outside was soaking wet with all their belongings. Next day we 
were taken from the school to the brick factory. We spent five horrible days here. They gave 
us nothing to eat or drink. There were a lot of people crowded together sick with anxiety and 
dubiety. Children were crying, everybody was grumpy and complaining. In the end we were 
entrained. There were 75 people in our freight car. It was terribly hot, within minutes the air 
became unbearable in the car. They gave us no water; our throats were so dry we could hardly 
swallow. A man from Kispest went mad. Two very old couples were agonising. In Kassa, 
they opened the wagon and took these out. I do not know what happened to them.

After three days of horrible journey, we arrived in Auschwitz. At the station, they 
immediately separated families and relatives from each other. They took us, young people fit 
for work to the baths, cut our hair off and bathed us. Everything was taken away from us, and 
we were given shabby clothes. We lived in the toilet for a week, because there was no 
place elsewhere. A week later, I got into the block, but there were so many people here that 
one could hardly sit down. Lying down was out of the question. We spent most of the time 
staying lined up for roll calls. They woke us up at half past two in the morning, and we had to 
stand until 8 but often the whole morning. There were also selections, barrack cleanings, 
when everybody was chased out but could not sit down. SS women were walking around with 
a whip, there was a very beautiful one, who was especially cruel. Everybody would hide from 
her, because whoever was in front of her she would whip. Our daily food portion was just 
enough for us not to starve to death. We suffered a lot from cold, because we only had a 
single dress, no stockings, no underwear, and we had to stand like this in a single dress for 
hours in the open. In October 1944, I was selected for a transport of labourers, they gave me 
clean clothes and put me on a carriage. We thought we would have a better time.

We were transported to Kürschau, Upper-Silesia. This was only a little farmstead, we lived in 
the barn. There were only a thousand of us. The barn was open, the wind and snow blew in, so 
we were often cold here as well. We did heavy work the whole day – we were digging 
trenches that were three and half by three and a half metres wide and four metres deep. They 
woke us up at five in the morning. We could wash ourselves altogether twice in three months, 
and we could of course not wash our clothes at all. Everybody had mange and was full of lice. 
Treatment was very cruel. Whoever reported ill was beaten to death. One woman was 
pushed into the lime-pit in front of her daughter’s eyes. When three people froze to death 
one morning, everybody got a blanket. If they saw someone tie the blanket around them 
during the day, they would get 25 blows with a club and would not be able to sit for a week.

At 10 o’clock in the evening on the 25th of January, 1945 we left. There were only 700 of us, 
the rest died. Russians were very close, and we were marching one day and one night without 
a break in high speed. 19 people died the first day. Whoever could not walk any more or 
looked weak was shot. We were marching for a month. We always slept in the open, or in 
stables at the best. We got a cooked meal twice, coffee three times and half a litre of milk 
once during the whole trip. There was continuous shooting behind us. We did 30-35 
kilometres a day on average. On February 18, 1945, we passed by Grünberg. By that time 
there were only 300 of us. I did not have shoes any more, I was walking barefoot for days and 
could not take it any longer. Three of us fell behind, hid in a haystack and waited for the 
people to pass. Then we went to the nearest village and said we were Christian Hungarian 
refugees and asked for work. We lived here until Russians liberated us.