The persons in question have given us the following information:

There were ca. 800 Jews in Tornalja. They were tradesmen, craftsmen and intellectuals living under financially sound circumstances.
After the German occupation the first thing that happened was that our windows were broken in. Later the Jews were concentrated in one street and then taken into a tobacco-drying shed. Soon we were entrained and taken into the ghetto in the brickyard of Diósgyőr. We spent five weeks in the ghetto in Tornalja. The members of the Jewish Council did their best to help us. We were allowed to take as much underwear, clothing and food as we wanted to the ghetto, but later home raids for our belongings became an everyday occurrence. The wealthy Jews were beaten up severely. There were a lot of Arrow Cross sympathisers in Tornalja and the number of the Jewish inhabitants was also high if compared to the size of the village. Among others, the pharmacist Liszauer was also beaten up badly. In the meantime he was called up for labour service in Jolsva, but was brought back to the tobacco-drying shed. Then he allegedly committed suicide and died there. We did not have to work in the ghetto and we had hoped until the very last moment that we would be taken to work someplace within the borders of the country. However, as we later learned, our destination was Germany. We stayed only three days in the ghetto of Diósgyőr. After that we were entrained: 100 of us were put into a cattle car. Before departure we did not get any water or buckets for the purpose of a WC. As far as we know, nobody attempted to escape along the way and nobody died in our car. We were already deep in Polish territory when partisans attacked the train. They detached a few cattle cars, but we do not know what happened to those deportees. The Germans had already taken over the train in Diósgyőr.
We arrived in Auschwitz on the afternoon of June 14. Polish prisoners chased us off the train and we had to leave behind our luggage. Then the men and the women were lined up separately in rows of five. During the selection we were lucky enough to stay together, because the above-mentioned Mrs. Ernő Blechner tried to pass herself off as a younger woman and it was successful. After that we were taken to the bath where we were disinfected. We were standing naked in rows of five, while the SS men were walking up and down and they were not inconvenienced by the situation at all. After our heads had been shaven, they took all of our clothes and replaced them with rags.
We were housed in the camp B/3 where 120 of us stayed in a block. We suffered very much from the extreme climate in Auschwitz. Sometimes we were lining up for roll call for hours in the fiery sunshine with nothing to cover our bald heads. It also happened that a sudden rainstorm came and we got wet and later the clothes dried on us during the roll call. We did not receive any water in the camp. Bromide was put into our meals: it burnt our palate and a lot of us got mouth illnesses. We were only given some inedible soup and a very small slice of bread with 20 grams of margarine to eat. We were doing only casual work, which was much worse than going out to work regularly.
There were frequent selections, but most of the time we could escape. The infirmary was opposite to our barrack. Once a car arrived there around 5 or 6 in the afternoon; they threw the ill people into it and then sped away towards the crematorium. One night we heard horrible screaming. Later we learned that the Gypsies were being taken to the gas chambers then.
During one of the selection we were separated, but afterwards we somehow managed to stay together. Our journey to Allendorf in Thüringen lasted three days. Fifty of us were put into a freight car and we got double portions of bread, Zulage and water for provisions. Allendorf was a working camp. We had a rest there for three or four weeks and we received fairly good food supply. Fourteen of us lived in a room and everyone had her own bed. We were assigned to work in an ammunition factory where our task was levelling the ground with pickaxes and doing similar kinds of work for 12 hours a day. In the beginning the food supply was satisfactory, but the situation was gradually worsening and in the end we were starving. Bombing became a frequent occurrence and therefore it was difficult to get the necessary supplies. The SS female supervisors were beating us badly.
The American and Russian troops kept on approaching and the guards were ordered to hand us over to the Gestapo. One night they set us off with one-seventh of a loaf of bread and some Zulage. We covered 30 kilometres on that night. After that they put 1000 people into a small barn. Later we were assigned to groups and taken further. However, many of us lagged behind and returned to the barn. That way we managed to survive, but we had to spend another three days in the barn without any food. The Americans liberated us on May 2 and took us to a nearby village. We were waiting here to be sent home, which happened shortly after. We went to Herschfeld with a Czech transport and from there we came to Budapest via Pilsen, Prague and Bratislava.
Our plans for the future: first we go home to Tornalja. Later we might emigrate to Palestine.