The person in question has given us the following information: 

I started my labour service on May 1, 1944 in Vác. From here I was transported directly to Bor. Upon our arrival we were assigned different camps. I was sent to the camp named Innsbruck. We were building a 6-kilometre, narrow gauge railway from the copper mines of Bor to Belgrade under the supervision of the Germans. They wanted to transport copper to Belgrade. Our foremen were the members of the Organisation Todt, who treated us much better than the Hungarian guards did. The situation became even worse when Lieutenant Colonel Marányi was sent to us: from then on our lives became a living hell. Truss-ups were an everyday occurrence. Half of our food supply was stolen and if it had not been for the local population, who behaved towards us wonderfully, we would have starved to death already there. One day 1500 eggs were sent into the camp, but we did not get any. However, the guards had scrambled eggs out of 10 for each of them. Pastries were prepared for them every day. Women visited them and took away the pastries made out of our rations on trays. As for us, we were starving and were pushing trams loaded with heavy stones among high mountains.
There was a 25-metre-long concrete tube built between two high hills. Once we found shelter in it in a thunderstorm. A dam burst and six of my brothers-in-arms drowned. One of them had spent 28 months in Ukraine before. We held a funeral for them.
At the end of August the Germans began to evacuate the Balkans. There were 6000 Jews and a few hundreds of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Bor. Around September 10, 3600 of us were set off for Petrovac on foot. Our guards told us that we would be entrained there.
However, they kept on taking us further. They promised that the train would come, but it never happened and we continued marching. We went through Belgrade and we spent the Jewish holidays in an exhibition hall in Zimony. We were informed that 6000 Serbian Jews had been concentrated there before. We spent three days there, during which I was starving so much that I exchanged my watch for a loaf of bread. We were set off again for the Banat region; we crossed the Hungarian border at Titel. We arrived in the evening and waited for being provided with some food. Instead of doing so, they told us to go to Újvidék, which was 35 kilometres away. We did and then we spent two days in a silk mill without any food or water. We picked apple peels and rotten fruits out of the trash. Once I found a pumpkin rind that made me very happy. Finally they got bread baked for us and each of us was given a quarter of a loaf. Then we set off again and marched through the part of the Banat region that was largely populated by ethnic Germans. We crossed fields and lived on raw turnips, potatoes and pumpkins. Officially we did not get any food. Then we arrived in Chervenka where the local ethnic Germans accused us of being partisans. Therefore the ethnic German SS took over the command of our unit and they beat us up severely. After that they assigned us to two groups and set us off immediately. While marching away we could see the other group set off for Mohács being lined up in groups of 20, and then we heard machine guns rattling. Those from our group who turned around were shot dead. Then we marched for another three days. They did not give us anything to eat, except that once in a while they threw turnips among us. They made fun of the starving people quarrelling and fighting over a single turnip. Those who fell to the ground were shot dead. We were trampling on dead bodies.
We arrived in Baja on the third day. They took us into the Jewish cemetery. The text inscribed at the gate was touching for me. It read “You, who are tired, come here to rest”. We spent the night there. The following day we were taken to the Pandur Island where we got a warm meal for the first time. Then we had to march to Szentkirályszabadja barefoot, full of lice and exhausted. Instead of discharging us, our guards took us to Hegyeshalom and handed our group over to the Germans, despite the fact that they had promised us not to cross the border with us. The SS immediately entrained us and transported us to Oranienburg. There we were disinfected and were sent to Buchenwald three days later.
I was taken to hospital because of my weakness. I lay ill there until April 11, when the Americans arrived in the camp. Before disarmed by the Americans, the SS men blew up the water conduit.