The person in question tells the following: 

My father had a grocery shop in Aknaszlatina. We lived in our own little house, we had quite 
a safe living. 

In the ghetto of Aknaszlatina, which was watched over by gendarmes, we were not even 
allowed to go out to the courtyard. Once my father went out in spite of the prohibition, the 
ghetto gendarmes and leventes beat him up as a punishment so much that he was hardly able 
to stand up. The men had to go to work outside the ghetto; it was said that all of us would be 
taken to work. The members of the Jewish Council tried as hard as they could to carry out the 
decrees of the authorities. We had no reason to complain about the notary (he was called 
Csaba), since he made every effort to help the Jews. On the last day of Passover, rumour had 
it that the people could no longer stay in the ghetto of Szlatina, but they would be taken 
elsewhere. Notary Csaba took the trouble to arrange that we would, eventually, be allowed to 
stay in Szlatina. There was a sub-lieutenant though, his name I can no longer remember 
unfortunately, who kept a club on him and beat up whomever he could. 

One morning, on or about 20th May, gendarmes appeared in the ghetto and ordered us to get 
ready. The notary, however, had already confided in many that they would take us away. We 
were taken from the school to the train, where 75 of us were entrained in a cattle car and we 
were given water when we started. We did not know where they were taking us. The cattle 
cars were opened the first time in Kassa, where Germans took us over. After two days we 
arrived in Auschwitz. Polish prisoners dressed in striped clothes ordered us to leave our 
baggage in the cattle car, then we got off and were made to stand in lines of five. Then they 
selected men and women, and again they made different groups from stronger and weaker 
people, younger and older ones. After that, we were taken to baths.
There they cut our hair and gave us rags instead of our own clothes. We saw chimneys 
emitting smoke on our arrival, but we also saw huge fires and thought that we would be 
chased into the fire right away. We were put up in the gypsy camp, 1,000 of us in a block, 12 
people on a bunk.  We stayed there for eight days altogether, then we were taken to Camp C. 
Since it was a death camp we did not work during the five months we spent there. There was 
an Appell every day, which lasted for hours; we were standing in cold and rain, starting at 4 
o’clock in the morning often till 8 or 9 o’clock. If, for example, I wanted to have a wash, I had 
to get up already at 1 o’clock in order to get access to the washbasin. Selections were made 
very frequently. I was selected to a transport in October and we started for Freudenthal. The 
journey took one day and when we arrived, 18 of us were put in one room. Everybody 
received a separate bed with a straw mattress. The beds were clean and the provisions were 
relatively sufficient. We worked 10 hours a day in a factory producing gas masques. We 
worked only during the day. The foremen’s behaviour was correct and the overseers treated us 
quite well too.
On 27th May the SS men left and the Russians liberated us already on the following day. I 
came home through Poland.