The persons in question have given us the following information:


We had jobs in Budapest when one day in October 1944 SS men with bayonets came into our flat and ordered us to go down to the yard, which had been already encircled by armed SS soldiers. Then we were taken out to the street where we had to stand with our hands held up. Meanwhile the SS men were beating us with clubs. We were body-searched in a room and then taken to the Tattersaal. They crowded approximately 5000 people into this building. There we were searched again. Arrow Cross youngsters took away all of our valuables. We did not eat anything for two days and on the evening of the third day the gendarmes appeared and took us back to our homes.
A few days later mandatory labour service was announced. Women up to 40 years of age and men up to 60 years were called up. We had to walk from the grounds of the National Center for High School Sport Clubs to Újpest, then to Szentgyörgypuszta where we had to dig holes. It was hard work indeed. We were constantly threatened by the Arrow Cross to surrender our valuables or we would be shot. We dug 3-metre-deep holes and we were not given anything to eat at all. One day seven men were shot and we had to bury their bodies. The fate of a very young girl who tried to escape was the same.
From Szentgyörgypuszta we had to march for two weeks. We suffered badly on the way from the cold and the rain. Many of us were shot down. After two weeks we were entrained and taken to Germany. Seventy of us were crammed into each closed freight car. We did not get anything to eat again and suffered excruciating pains for a whole week until we arrived in Ravensbrück.
In that camp we lived in tents into which the rain fell. At the beginning we worked at a construction site, later we unloaded coal from freight cars. The treatment was very cruel. The SS soldiers were constantly beating us and they called us “verfluchte Judenbande”. We got half a litre of soup and a little bread every day. Twenty to thirty people died daily due to exhaustion. At 3 in the morning we had to line up for roll call and stand still for hours. One time we had to sort clothes and rags from 10 pm to 3 am, so we did not sleep at all, because as soon as we were taken back, it was roll call again.
We stayed in Ravensbrück for five months, and then we were transported to Bergen-Belsen in freight cars. Before our departure our guards took everything from us, even our bowls, so we could not drink water during the entire journey. All we got was half a kilogram of bread and a little margarine for six days. In Bergen-Belsen we were put into blocks where at least 4000 people were crammed together into one room. It was a bitingly cold winter. The block had neither doors nor windows, so it was completely open all around and snow and rain were coming in, since if we were under the open sky. We could hardly move. A lot of people died in the block. Those who were so weak that they could not even move were trampled to death. We did not have to work, but our daily food supply consisted of only half a litre of soup and therefore we suffered indescribably from hunger. The water was turned off and therefore we were overcome with lice. In addition, a typhus epidemic broke out and hundreds of people died of weakness. We were walking on dead bodies all the time and we were ordered to take them out on carts. The corpses were put in line and were covered with a single layer of wood, and then set on fire.
Before our liberators came we could hear heavy bombing. Soon the glorious American troops, to whom we owe our lives, entered the camp. Since everybody was ill, we stayed in the camp for two more weeks and received the best food supply. Then we were taken to Bergen where we rested for three weeks. We even spent a few more weeks in Zelle as well. As soon as we were strong enough, we were set off for home with a Czech transport.

As for my plans for the future, I would like to immigrate to Palestine as soon as possible.