The person in question has given us the following information:

The 5th of July, 1944, I was arrested. I had Christian documents but a member of my group let 
the cat out of the bag in the wrong place. Someone denounced me and it led to my arrest. 
They took me to Csillaghegy to interrogate me. They were interested in my political views 
and financial situation. They beat my sole very hard with the baton. From Csillaghegy they 
took me to Budakalász. I was in a single piece of dress without any food, and they put me like 
this into a departing transport. This is how I got into Auschwitz the 9th of July, 1944.
 
Men were immediately separated from us still at the station. They created groups of people 
who were fit for work and unfit for work so they separated us from the elderly, children and 
the mothers who did not let their children go with the elderly. Christian Polish men worked at 
the station. They did not tell us the truth but mislead us. They must have known what it meant 
to sit in one of those huge black cars. Germans used these cars as kind of baits. Not only the 
elderly got in them but also many others happily jumped in not to go to the camp on foot. And 
none of these old Polish prisoners told them: “do not jump in as it will be your ride to death”. 
We learnt soon that a gas chamber functioned in Brežinka, and gassed people were burnt in 
crematoria. Smoke penetrated the air above the camp and some peculiar strange stink 
dominated everywhere. When we asked what it was, we believed what they answered: 
they were burning hair and bad clothes, shoes, etc.

When in the baths we undressed completely in a huge hall in front of SS soldiers and Polish 
male prisoners women “hairdressers” cut our hair off and depilated us one after the other. 
After disinfection we got dresses – of course not ours. We could keep only the shoes from the 
stuff we used to have, but sometimes not even the shoes. If an old prisoner liked the shoes of 
one of the newcomers she would take them off her feet without saying a word. And she would 
give wooden slippers in return.

They put me into Camp C, in a block where there were no berths. We lay on the floor in dirt 
and mud, since this block was not fully finished, yet. The first night a few went mad as they 
could not stand the idea that such a life was waiting for them. Every day the same was routine  
repeated: roll calls outside in the morning and the evening that lasted for hours so that they 
could count us and could report to Berlin how many prisoners were still alive in the Birkenau 
camps. Waiting for lunch. For bread. Fighting for the right to go to the toilet not only in 
groups of five people but when it was needed. Fighting for a single sip of water, and for the 
opportunity to bath. Fighting for a raw potato, for a cabbage-head, for a turnip, which we had 
fearfully stolen in the area of the kitchen. Fighting to evade curfews in order to sneak into 
another block where by chance lunch was distributed and to obtain this way two portions. 
And fighting the most nerve-racking fight not to be separated from my younger sister because 
we knew that the SS separated relatives with delight. We did not stop keeping the hand of one 
other making sure that neither of us got into a transport without the other one. 

At the beginning we did not want to believe gas chambers existed. We saw the flames, and 
the continuous stink was also unmistakable but we believed they were burning only people 
who had died of natural death. The idea that parents and children did not exist any more could 
drive us crazy. Once, during a roll call we noticed a long queue of prams far away, further 
from the wire fence. We started to celebrate thinking that there was surely a separate camp for 
them... Then the queue of prams got closer and we saw that … they carried only duvets...

Once in October, Mengele came with a civilian to do the selections. They were looking for 
250 women to do work of civilians. We were told that good transports were the ones when 
few people were wanted. My sister and me managed to get into this group. They took us from 
Camp C into Camp A into a barrack of transports. We spent a week in this block as real 
prisoners. We left it only to report for roll calls; otherwise we were not allowed to go even to 
the toilet. Once a comrade of us found one of her close relatives here in Camp A. She 
managed to escape from the barrack of transports and got into the barrack where her relative 
stayed, so a person resulted to be missing at roll call. We had to stand there for hours and then 
to kneel down. Late evening, we were led back to the block. Suddenly there was complete 
darkness. The woman block leader appeared with a candle in the hand. She demanded we told 
her where our fugitive comrade stayed. She threatened to send us all in crematorium. This was 
all awfully ghostly: the frightening darkness, the silence that followed the threat. It was 
unbearable. We somehow had the feeling that this threat might be carried out, that we could 
get prepared to depart this life. They did not bring us into crematorium since our comrade was 
found. It was all very simple because they found out that there was an extra person in the 
block to where she had run away. No, you could not run away in Auschwitz, you could not go 
missing.

Finally, a week later, they entrained us. We got the due rations and could leave. Two days 
later we arrived in Breslau-Hundsfeld, where there was the plant. The camp could be almost 
described as great. We lived in a two-storey building; there were four rooms on the ground 
floor and four rooms upstairs. It looked like a small resort hotel. It appeared so particularly to 
us after Auschwitz. The company took proper care of us. It was very modern, with central 
heating. We worked eleven hours a day. Under the circumstances rations were quite decent, 
too. Only our clothing was very poor. We only had a dress. The 16th of December, we 
received short stockings. Before, we had walked with naked legs. We received also small 
jackets but no shawls. Once the news spread that we had to leave since Russians were 
approaching us. The real misery started only now. The 23rd of January, 1945, we started a 60- 
kilometre-long trip on foot. We marched in horrible blizzards, in minus 15-20 degrees Celsius 
without any food. During the five days of our trip we received only once a spoonful of 
jam and one eighth of a loaf of bread. 1,500 of us left, and around 180-200 people fell 
behind. Those who sat down became cold and could not continue. We just stepped over them. 
They did not shoot these unfortunate; it would have been a pity to waist bullets for them, as 
they got frozen anyway in a few hours. They shovelled a little snow on their bodies. 

Eventually, we arrived in Gross Rosen, where we stayed for two weeks. They had already 
started emptying this camp. We carried on in open wagons in freezing cold. I do not know for 
how many days we travelled before we arrived in Mauthausen. This was a huge camp for men 
on a hill; there were no women in it. After two weeks “rest,” we were forced to move on. We 
were wondering through Germany for 10 days, and for 5 days without food or water. There 
were towns where we returned even twice. It seems that not even the SS knew where to bring 
us. Finally, we ended up in Bergen-Belsen. They put us into a work camp, which meant that 
we carried 20-30 kilos heavy logs in completely enfeebled condition while they would beat us 
and give us minimal rations. I was already on my own having lost my younger sister. A 
typhus infection started to spread and I fell sick with it, too. I had paratyphoid fever and 
oedema. I was not any more a human being when American troops marched in the 15th of 
April, 1945, and ended my suffering.