The person in question has given us the following information:

I used to work in my brother’s shop. I met him in Russia; unfortunately he died there. My mother was taken to the Danube embankment from the Pest ghetto by the Arrow Cross and killed. 
I started my labour service on June 12, 1942 in company 105/1 in Jászberény from where I was taken to Gomel (Ukraine) after a month. Our company commander was a warrant officer, a detective with Arrow Cross sympathies. He was a real beast and so were the members of the guard unit: they were constantly beating us. As far as I know the labour servicemen and the partisans executed the warrant officer while the army was retreating. 
Between January 1943 and the end of March I was lying sick with typhoid fever in a Russian woman’s flat. The story is as follows: the sick were accommodated in a school building and when the army retreated, they were covered with straw and left there. I was found by a Russian woman, who took me to her flat. I was informed that the others, 15 labour servicemen, unfortunately died in that school. Actually my accordion skills saved my life. The husband of the above mentioned woman died when I worked as a labour serviceman in the village and I was playing the accordion at his funeral. This is how she recognised me among those dying covered with straw in the school. I stayed at her house for three months and when I recovered from my serious typhoid fever, I sold my gear and lived off the money I got for it. Afterwards I got to Czerianka and worked for the political police as a driver until October 1943. Then I was taken into the POW camp in Kursk where I was also assigned to work as the leader of the garage. Of course I was very well off there, I enjoyed complete freedom and the food supply was outstanding too. 
In September 1945 an order was issued that the Yugoslavian, Romanian, Czechoslovakian, Polish and Hungarian Jewish prisoners and all the sick would go home. Out of the 900 who left 16 were Hungarian Jews. Our route was: Kursk, Kiev, Fogsany, Bucharest, Arad, Budapest. Many who left the camp sick died on the way; the corpses were offloaded at the stations we passed through.