The person in question has given us the following information:
On October 23, 1944, following the call-up announced by the Arrow Cross on bills I went to the grounds of the National Centre for High School Sport Clubs. From there they took me to Újpest, and then to Isaszeg-Szentgyörgypuszta where I was digging trenches for two weeks. We got very little food there.
Two weeks later they brought me back to Újpest. From there they ferried me across the river to the Tungsram factory, and then to Pünkösdfürdő. From there I was taken to the brickyard of Óbuda. From that place I went to Hegyeshalom, escorted by Hungarian soldiers. The journey lasted about 10-14 days.
The SS took us over in Hegyeshalom. We got a warm meal, bread, cheese and butter. We thought our situation would take a turn for the better. They entrained our group of about 650 people in Zürndorf. The following day we arrived in Dachau. I may say we were okay there. One week later we were entrained again and they transported us further. I was taken to Ravensbrück. That was a miserable day. In spite of the winter weather they took away all of our winter clothes and gave us thin summer clothes. I was living in the so-called death tent for two weeks. We lay on the bare ground and they did not even give us a little straw. We could only squat in there, because there was not enough room to stretch our limbs. We could not even go out to the lavatory and we had to relieve ourselves indoors. It made our situation even more horrible. We stayed there along with Gypsies. When food was distributed, they stormed the kettles. Those who were unable to fight their way through got only a very little portion or nothing at all.
We were lined up for roll call every morning outdoors. It was sleeting very often.
Once 600 women were selected for work in Spandau and I was also put on the transport. I worked in an armaments factory where I manufactured 20-kilogram cylinders. They had not put a guard plate on the cylinder grinding machine until somebody died. We worked 12 hours a day in shifts. Our daily food supply consisted of coffee without sugar in the morning, turnips cooked in water at noon, and very little bread in the evening.
The camp itself was terrible as well. We lived in a factory building where rain and snow were coming in. The camp was surrounded by a high electric fence.
On April 20, 1945 200 of us were set off for Sachsenhausen on foot. We were liberated by the Russians there two days later.
I am waiting for my little daughter, from whom I was separated. However, I know she is on her way home. I have an uncle living in America; I would like to emigrate to him.