The person in question has given us the following information: 

One day the men were rounded up by the gendarmes and 60 of us were taken to perform agricultural work. We worked on a farm for ca. two weeks. One Saturday a master sergeant came and took us to Ercsi, to a building marked with a yellow star. In a few minutes Hungarian detectives showed up and without any further ado they started to beat us. They were thoroughly searching us and took away every single item that had some value. The next day we were taken to the Székesfehérvár ghetto. We spent 10 days here. Our family was put on a transport, entrained and deported out of the country on June 13. We travelled for three days without getting anything to eat or drink. I was taken to Auschwitz where I stayed together with my father. We were in the Gypsy camp until September when I was taken to Landsberg via Kaufering. Our camp commander, who used to be a commander in Warsaw, was called Kappelsbauer. He was a huge, fat person and he smoked a pipe all the time, therefore we mocked him as the Piper. He was very mad at the sick: he chased them out to the yard without shoes and clothes and forced them to work. He beat many people to death. Later he was transferred to Kaufering and became a commander there. 
I worked in various working units; mainly I worked at the construction of camp 11. We got very little food, therefore people grew weak: there were 50-60 deaths every day already from the beginning. Later typhoid fever broke out and soon all the sick from the neighbouring camps were transferred here. Landsberg became a hospital camp. I fell ill too and lay there for weeks unconsciously. All of the recoveries were miracles, indeed, since there was neither medication nor treatment. Those who caught a cold were put among those with typhoid fever, those with normal skin were laid among the scabby, etc. Two days before the liberation they wanted to transfer us from camp 4 to camp 1. We were entrained, but an air raid hit us and we scattered. They managed to round us up only the next day. There were a lot of dead and wounded who could not escape in time from the freight cars. We were rounded up in block 1; they drove us with guns and clubs saying that we would march to Dachau. However by the time we reached the station, the Americans liberated us. 
I stayed in the camp for another week, then I went to a former SS garrison where the Americans provided me with everything I needed, and thus I regained some of my strength. In the meantime my father died in Mühldorf, my mother in Auschwitz. I would like to travel home to acquire a few items and then I am going to continue my education here.