The person in question has given us the following information:

I was supposed to join the labour service company in Jászberény but I escaped on the way and I 
came back to Pest. I was hiding for 10 days, although it was a very hazardous thing to do in July 
1944, because of the continuous raids of the Arrow Cross. I could not go back to my old flat 
because my family had to move to a yellow star house and there the janitor did not let me in. So I 
went to the camp in Columbus Street, which was under the protection of the Red Cross. The 
protection lasted only till 3rd December, when Arrow Cross men and policemen enclosed the camp 
and took everybody to Teleki Square. There they robbed the whole company and on the next day 
they entrained us at Józsefváros railway station. 70 of us were put in a cattle car. We spent ten days 
in the sealed cattle car. The train stopped many times on the way. The peasants or the gendarmes 
brought us food sometimes, but they took terribly unfair advantage of the situation: they gave 
100 grams of bread for a gold ring and wanted 100 pengős for a sip of water. One night they 
took us across the border. The first stop in Austria was Zürrendorf. We were sad to see the SS men 
there. Then we already knew what was in store for us. We received something to eat at first in 
Zürrendorf. The Germans gave us 150 grams of bread and 30 grams of cheese. The journey from 
there to Bergen-Belsen lasted for four days. 
Bergen-Belsen was an enormous camp. 70,000 prisoners of different nationalities stayed there. We 
lived in wooden barracks, two people slept on one berth. The food was tolerable in the beginning, 
but later more and more people arrived and the rations became smaller and smaller. I was very 
often cold. We had to line up for roll call for 3-4 hours a day in thin clothes without a coat. They 
beat us cruelly. The place was equipped with water pipes, yet we became infested with lice and that 
was also a big torment. My comrades kept weakening and many of them died. The Germans 
sentenced the whole camp to death. When the Americans were already at Hannover, the camp was 
emptied and we were chased towards an unknown destination. Luckily, the Americans caught us 
near Magdeburg and they liberated us. Some of the SS people escaped, the others got caught.