The person in question has given us the following information

We arrived in Auschwitz and I was assigned to the Gypsy camp. There were only 28 of us, adults, the others were kids. We were assigned to keep order of the kids. Unfortunately these 12-14-year-old children were beaten a lot by the Gypsies. For example one night a kid was not going to the bathroom at the designated place and not only this one was beaten to a pulp, but all the others too. Later we were transferred to camp A where we were doing better.  After two days we were put on a transport and taken to Buchenwald. Our rations were much better here than in Auschwitz. Our lodging was good too: we stayed in barracks and everybody got two or three blankets. Unfortunately after two days we were taken from here to Bochum. Here half of the transport was assigned to work at an ammunition factory, while the others had to work with concrete. This latter work was extremely hard. We had to build additional 10-12 barracks and we had to perform the concrete work of these buildings. I worked only six days here, then I fell ill with pneumonia and was taken to hospital. Here I was treated very well. After three weeks I was released from the hospital and got two more weeks off. Moreover, after that I was assigned to easy work for another two to three days. There was, however, an evil foreman assigning me to very hard work in the factory. I told him right away that I would not be able to do that work, but he started to beat me. So I started to work, but after a few hours I passed out because of exertion. One of the SS men started to poke at me with his rifle, but when they saw that I was not able to regain consciousness, they called a doctor. There was a very decent Czech doctor on duty by accident, who certified that I was not able to work. After this I was not assigned to work in the factory, but I was allowed to stay in the camp and I did not have to perform work, especially hard work. The supply and the lodging were very decent. We got a quarter of a loaf of bread every day, good soup, but later the food deteriorated; it was stolen more and more frequently, so we got only empty soups, potato-soup once in a while on Sundays and much less bread. Those who worked in the factory got one-fifth of a loaf of bread, and those working in the camp got only one-sixth of a loaf. At the end we got only one-eight of a loaf of bread and some very bad soup. Zulag was not distributed at all. We had to work 12 hours a day. In the winter we did not receive anything from 6 am to 6 pm, only a little soup in the summer. Several times we had to line up for roll call whole day long in the freezing cold. Every so often during the roll call elderly men were beaten so badly that they collapsed. Especially an ethnic German Unterscharführer from Hungary, named Hoffmann, beat the elderly people with great joy. On February 15 we were waken up at 3 am and we had to line up for roll call. We stood there until 3 pm and we were not allowed to sit down. Later we were transferred back to Buchenwald.
We arrived after three days of travel. After arriving we got a little soup in the evening.  We spent two weeks here and we received quite good food: a one-sixth portion of bread and relatively well cooked, delicious soups. When the front line approached, we had to escape and we were taken to Theresienstadt. Jews took us over here, so our situation improved. The march there was terrible, since we did not get any food for days and if someone picked grass to eat or got out of the line, he was shot. Moreover, many people died from hunger or exhaustion. I fell ill in Theresienstadt, so I was taken to hospital in a very deteriorated and weak condition.  I spent two weeks in the hospital in dirt; I was teeming with lice until I was disinfected. On May 8 the Russians came and liberated us. My plan for the future is to immigrate to Palestine and settle down there.