The person in question has given us the following information:

Jewish laws concerned me for the first time when I was dismissed in 1939 because 
of these laws. I started to have financial problems.

In 1940, I was summoned to Tápiószele to do labour service. The commander was 
###; we had to carry sacks. Any work was done only by us, Jewish labour 
servicemen.

When in 1944 the Germans entered Hungary, I wore a yellow star as a sign of 
differentiation from Hungarians. Later, I moved into a house with a yellow star. 
The Arrow Cross took me from here to dig trenches on the fringes of Budapest for 
three weeks. These people treated us very badly; they beat us. They seized all 
of our valuables and were as rude as possible. They did not give us food for 
three days, so we ate nothing.

When I returned home I obtained Swedish protection and moved into Jókai Street 
No. 4, which was a protected building. Three days later, the Arrow Cross and 
soldiers came and took me to the railway station of Józsefváros. This was on the 
28th of November.

They closed 80 people in a freight car with one loaf of bread. The gendarmes 
gave us no water but took our money and all remaining valuables. We could not go 
to the toilet either. 

At Hegyeshalom we left the Hungarian border where the SS took charge of us and 
transported us to Bruck.

They put us up in the attics and in places where it was impossible to heat. We 
suffered a lot from the cold of the winter and because of the flimsy clothes and 
the poor food we had.

We dug tank ditches. We had some black coffee at dawn, when we went to work to 
break up the cold, frozen soil full of pebbles. Later, they used us for carrying 
wood in the forest.

They were ruthless, beating us all the time. It is hard to imagine in what 
conditions we lived, and how much we were at their mercy. Their commanders were 
prison guards dressed in uniform. They often shot someone. Young Hitlerjugend 
kids stole our watches. Many people died. In my troop we were 150; after 12 
weeks only 87 people remained. This high mortality rate was also caused by the 
scarcity of food, as we ate either unpeeled potatoes or carrots. Another reason 
was the cold and that they shot people. We started to have lice and soon we had 
so many of them that you could practically sweep them off.

If snow started to fall in the evening, there was already a metre of snow 
everywhere in the stall where I was put up, even on my coverlet. You could not 
heat it at all.

At the end of March, I was ordered to leave Bruck and was taken to a port. 
During the time we were walking to the ship, many were shot. We embarked at the 
bank of the Danube. This was our mortal vessel where they gave us no food at all 
for 8 days. We travelled for 8 days without food and when we got to Mauthausen 
there were a lot of dead bodies around, who were thrown into the Danube. In one 
case, a boy wanted to get hold of food for his father, when the guard noticed it 
he killed the child in front of his father.

When we arrived many of us could not climb out from the bottom of the ship 
because they were too weak. We witnessed how they pulled out these people by 
rope and right away threw them into the Danube alive. I managed to get away with 
a blow of the rifle butt. There was a single piece of plank and 3,600 people had 
to quickly run down on it to the bank. I did not go fast enough so I got a blow 
with the rifle butt which almost made me fly into the Danube.

In Mauthausen, we suffered an awful lot. They crammed around 2,000 people in a 
barrack that was meant for 500. Naturally, we hardly had space to sit down, not 
to mention lie down.

Food was absolutely minimal, basically nothing. There was some bitter coffee in 
the morning, the cooking water of turnips with a pair of turnips in it for 
lunch, and around 100-120 grams of bread in the evening. Not surprisingly, the 
mortality rate suddenly increased. We were in awful spirits, and we did not hope 
much for the future.

At the end of April, Mauthausen was emptied and we started our trip towards 
Gunskirchen in groups of 5,000. This approximately 60-kilometre-long trip lasted 
for 3 days, and we got food only once, some inedible sour soup, which not even 
our starving stomachs could tolerate.

All the way, there was continuous shooting. If someone wanted to collect some 
grass, rape or nettles the SS shot him or her. If someone wanted to have a few 
minutes rest and sat down on the side of the road, the SS shot him or her, too. 
There were dead bodies all the way along the road, signalling the route of the 
deportation of Jews.

We were put up in barracks in Gunskirchen. We were severely cramped also here, 
we could not even straighten our legs. There was already typhus here, which 
claimed as many victims as hunger. We did not have the courage to tell them 
about the people who had typhus because that did not mean in our experience 
medical treatment but a bullet in the head. So we kept the fact of their 
sickness a secret - putting our own life in permanent risk.

We did not get a drop of water in Gunskirchen and suffered a lot from thirst, 
not to mention that we were covered by thousands of lice because there was no 
opportunity at all to wash. We were in a desperate and inconsolable state.

We did not have to work apart from burying the growing number of dead people. In 
the courtyard hundreds of dead, skeleton-like bodies lay unburied for days. It 
was an awful and unforgettable view. Death, a miserable way of expiration, was 
waiting for all of us.

These were the conditions in which we lived when we were liberated. The first 
American car arrived the 4th of May, 1945, and American soldiers declared us 
free.