The persons in question has given us the following information:

On 23rd October 1944 we were taken from the National Centre for High School Sports Clubs
field to Isaszeg. We could take food enough for 3 days with us. For 2 weeks we dug trenches in 
Isaszeg, then we were brought back to Újpest and we set off again. We marched, straying for about 
a month, then finally, on the main road leading to Vienna we reached Hegyeshalom. We covered 
25-30 kilometres a day and we always slept in the open air. We had no provisions, so we became 
very weak already on that way and many people collapsed from the row. One of our leaders, a 
gendarme called Mittelmeyer, shot dead an 18-year-old girl, who starved so much that she 
could not march any longer and who went to get food in a house the inhabitants of which she 
had known. She did not want to escape, she returned right away and that was the time when 
the gendarme shot her dead. We were to dig her grave. 
When people from among the inhabitants tried to smuggle in some food for us, they were beaten to 
run away and they were threatened with being shot down. It also happened in Újpest that people 
prepared some food and put it in the window, but when the gendarmes noticed it they beat 
them up together with us.  A gendarme called Ádám was the most active. 
We were handed over to the Germans at Hegyeshalom and there we were given food at last. From 
there they took us to Zürndorf, where we were entrained. That was a real rest for us. After a two-
and-a-half-day journey we arrived in Landsberg. Landsberg belonged to Camp No. 11 of 
Kaufering.  
Polish prisoners received us when we arrived. Whatever we still had they took away. We were put 
up in a block, where 100 of us slept on the floor on which straw was spread. The work was very 
hard for us: reveille at half past three in the morning, then Appell and we started working at 6 
o’clock. We had to remove ice form the rails with pickaxes; our hands were frozen to the pickaxes. 
The treatment was also cruel. Women were beaten up and shot down. A foreman called Moll 
executed a female comrade of ours by shooting one of her breasts first, then in the other 
breast; he cut pieces out of the body of another one. There were 2,600 Hungarian labour 
servicemen with us in that Moll Kommando. They had to carry bags of cement, each weighing 50 
kilos. They worked for 8 hours without a break even in the greatest frost and they were hurried with 
rifle butts. If somebody did not bear the work well, they threw him into the concrete mixer.  
Our provisions were awful, too: 170 grams of mouldy bread a day, some brown liquid called black 
coffee without sugar, and the brew of unpeeled potatoes, which they called soup. 
Because of the advancing of the American troops, they took us further on 20th April. We were 
marching for 10 days; we covered 30 kilometres without any hot food. We slept in the open air and 
of course we could not undress and wash even once. 

On 30th April we arrived in Buchberg where the Wehrmacht took us over. Moll, however, caught 
up with us there again with an order stating that we should go along and all of us should be killed. 
The event that saved us was that, following the advice of a physician of Szlovenszko we all 
reported sick, because of which the departure was postponed and they ordered us to set off on the 
following day. Luckily the American troops thwarted it, as they liberated us still on the same day, 
on 1st May.