The person in question has given us the following information:

On the 19th of March, 1944, following the Germans’ occupation of Hungary the 
notice ordering Jews to register at the gendarmes’ station was announced and was 
a placard regarding it was put onto the walls in all villages and towns. 
The 19th of May, all Jews of Csillaghegy were ordered to gather in the ghetto by 
the 24th of May.
Earlier, the heads of the community were made appear before the local authority: 
the president of the community Lipót Réti, me, who was the vice-president, the 
honorary president Ferenc Kraszner, and the notary Miklós Barkovits. We were 
informed that the area of the ghetto would be the 4. 6. 8. Zenta Street. This 
area was called the “armpit”, this was where the poorest people of Csillaghegy 
lived, the refugees, this was a damp and unhealthy place being on the 
floodplain. Having checked the site we protested against the decision enjoying 
the support of Notary Sólymosi, and the Constable György Katinger. They 
submitted their written opinion to the office of the chief constable. The area 
designated for the purpose of the ghetto was small to house all Jews, since it 
was supposed to be not only the place for the Jews of Csillaghegy but also for 
those of the whole district of Szentendre, that is, of Budakalász, 
Szentistvántelep, Pomáz, Pilisszántó, Tahitótfalu, Visegrád, Leányfalu, 
Pócsmegyer, Piliscsaba, and Békásmegyer.     
Having checked the place again the notary, who had earlier received the 
permission of the chief constable on the phone, announced that we could also use 
the building of the newspaper Esti Kurír and the Typographers’ Home. Although 
these houses were far from Zenta Street they were the most suitable to house a 
mass of people. Originally, they wanted to form an uninterrupted block attaching 
also the villas of Zenta Street, but the owners refused to move out. Finally, we 
occupied the houses of Zenta Street plus two weekend houses, and two other 
Jewish houses in Királyok Street. These latter houses were added to the ghetto 
only in secret, without the permit of the chief constable. We could have these 
houses only because of the benevolence of the local authorities. When committees 
came to inspect the ghetto we did not show them these two houses. We moved in on 
the 23rd and 24th of May. There were 317 of us in the ghetto. 
These were days also for rounding up the Jews of the neighbouring villages. One 
could take anything into the ghetto small enough to fit in the flats.     
Out of the 317 people 10 was called up for the labour service, 17 young men and 
women worked for the defence plant, 3 families received exemption, 9 people were 
sent home. 
Authorities elected a committee of 5 people to lead the ghetto. I was their 
president. Their members are named in Attachment III. There were no 
representatives of the authorities controlling the ghetto, the Jewish Council 
was in charge of the discipline. In the Typographers’ Home it was Ferenc 
Kraszner, in the building of the journal Esti Kurír it was Simon Davidovics, and 
in Zenta Street it was doctor Füredi responsible for the order. 
Attachment No. V. shows the list of the people who moved out of the ghetto of 
Csillaghegy. 
Attachment No. VI. shows the entire list of the ghetto’s inhabitants. 
I have to add that thanks to the benevolence of the local authorities 224 people 
had moved to Pest before the ghetto got closed down. Unfortunately, many of them 
was later deported from Pest, see Attachment No. V. 
On the 29th of June Gendarme Master Sergeant László Endre came to the ghetto and 
asked for the documents of those who lived in mixed marriages, saying that in 
any case these people would be certainly kept in the ghetto. 
The day after, gendarmes surrounded the ghetto and everyone had to queue up with 
his or her luggage in front of the carts within 45 minutes. We went there with 
my son too, although my wife came from a Christian family. Before departure 
Endre came to me and said that the people from mixed marriages could re-enter 
until further notice. This way there were 11 of us remaining. The other 280 
people were deported. 
In the last seconds two families escaped. Endre knew about it, in fact it was he 
who suggested to some to escape. 
We stayed in the ghetto for another 6 weeks, then we returned to our families. 

On the 15th of October the Arrow Cross took hold of the government. Atrocities 
in Csillaghegy started only now. Among others the Jónás couple, who had gone 
into hiding somewhere were denounced and shot by the Arrow Cross only a day 
before the liberation, the 26th of December. Gyula Pollák was beaten to death on 
the 8th of December and thrown into the Danube.    
Those who returned had great difficulties to find their place in the economy, I 
still did not get my job back.