The person in question has given us the following information: 

My father was the director of one of the banks of Técső. We were living on his income, but my earnings contributed to the family budget too. 

I started my labour service on October 1, 1943. I performed labour service in Komárom, Zsibó, Veszprém, Szenkirályszabadja and Hajdúszoboszló. We had a sergeant named Imre Nagy (a peasant from Győr) and a corporal named Antal Hajnik (from Érsekújvár), who beat us severely and treated us very badly in general. We were taken to Kőszeg in November 1944. We lived in tents during the whole winter; we had to lie on the bare ground. Many people froze to death here: 5000 of us arrived and only 4500 left Kőszeg. On three occasions they crammed the weak and the elderly into a grave and pumped cyanide gas on them. They did this when rumour had it that the Russian troops were approaching. We were digging antitank ditches in minus 25 degrees C; we worked 13 hours a day and got only 15 decagrams of bread, half a litre of thick soup and bitter coffee for this work. 

By that time the Russians had gotten close, therefore we were set off from Kőszeg on foot. The SS attacked us in the mountains and the Volkssturm machine gunned down 200 boys. I was lucky, because when one of the murderers drew his gun at me, I leaned forward, so the bullet that was supposed to hit me killed one of my fellows. 

In Mauthausen we slept outdoors; we were soaking wet and cold for five days, since the rain was constantly pouring. We got only one decilitre of water a day and our rations were terribly poor: it consisted of two decilitres of soup and 10 decagrams of bread a day.  One night two bombs were thrown at us and many prisoners died; we heard that the Germans did it.  Shortly the camp was repaired, but only the Aryan prisoners stayed there; the Jews were taken to Günskirchen. Here the SS came into the blocks saying that they were rounding people up for work, but these unfortunate prisoners supposedly taken to work never came back: they were all shot dead. We did not work; we were accommodated in barracks and our daily rations consisted of 20 decagrams of bread and some soup. 

On May 5 the Americans arrived and they liberated us. Later they took us to Wells and we came home from there to Budapest with the Czech transport via Prague and Bratislava.