The person in question has given us the following information: 

Only two Jewish families lived in Kistoronya, because the other six families were taken to Poland in 1941. My father owned a leather shop, a grocery store and a pub. He was with me until Dachau where he died.
At the beginning of April 1944 we were taken into the ghetto of Sátoraljaújhely. There were about 12,000 people. We had a soup kitchen; we were guarded by military gendarmes, and the order inside the ghetto was maintained by Jewish police. Before going to the ghetto, we had been subjected to a home raid and in the ghetto the brutal search for money and jewellery became a daily routine. If they found anything hidden, they beat us up severely. They said we would be taken to the Transdanubian region to work and the families would be able to meet every week. We believed that, therefore we did not attempt to flee. We had nothing to say against the activity of the Jewish Council, including Dr Rosenberg and others. We spent four weeks in the ghetto before our turn came and we were taken away with the second transport. They searched through our belongings. I had a backpack: they left only one set of clothes, two sets of underwear and some food in it. We were taken into the synagogue and subjected to body search again. After staying there overnight, we were taken to the cattle cars early in the morning. Seventy-eight people were put into a car and we were given some water. Along the way they repeatedly requested to hand over all of our valuables in exchange for water. As far as I know, nobody attempted to escape, and there was no death in our car. We heard that we were being taken to Auschwitz, but we did not know what it meant. The train was escorted by Hungarians until Kassa; from there it was escorted by SS men.
The train arrived in Auschwitz some time at the beginning of May, at 1:30 am. On the demand of Polish prisoners in striped clothes we left our baggage in the cars. We asked them where we were taken to. They responded: “Don’t you see the big fire? Where do you think you’re going?”  Getting off, men and women were separated and then we were taken into the bath. They disinfected us and shaved our heads. Four days later we were taken to Warsaw with a transport. The trip lasted for two days; there were 50 of us in a freight car. We got one loaf of bread and margarine, but no water, despite the hot weather. Upon our arrival in Warsaw, we were standing outside, and all of us were given new numbers. We did not get any water even there; people were getting sick due to thirst. We were appointed to work: we had to clear the remains of the bombarded ghetto. We were working for 10-12 hours per day. Our camp was not far from the ghetto. Three hundred of us lived in a block, and everyone had his own bed. Our food supply was one-third of a loaf of bread and some Zulage. We were lined up for roll call in the morning and in the evening every day. We had to exploit 250 bricks per day and it was very hard. By the end of the day many people had collapsed. Even then we were forced to move four bricks in, otherwise the capos beat us.
The Russian front was approaching and we could hear shooting. We had to be ready to leave all the time; therefore we did not get any food for four days, with the exception of the workers. We were set off on foot; the journey lasted ten days. We were marching for four days. We were forced to run all the time; we got no water despite the heat and the fact that we were passing water sources. If someone jumped in for some water, he was shot dead by the SS on spot. We tried to dig into ground with knives or spoons to find water, but when we finally did after long and hard work, the capos came and sold the water to us. One golden tooth cost a half litre of water. There were plenty of deaths along the way. If someone fell behind, he was immediately shot dead. We needed food, but we needed water even more badly. We immensely suffered from thirst, and it made people to collapse. It had been raining heavily before we got entrained, but we had to go to sleep under the open sky. Our blankets got wet and therefore many of us got ill. Ninety-six of us were put into a closed freight car. The capos occupied almost the entire car, therefore we could not sit, but we were standing all in a heap. People were shot dead in the cars as well; there were even 30 deaths in each car. We did not get any water for five days. My father died of thirst upon our getting off. We were in the same car, but then I was put into another car and I was informed about the tragedy only from a relative. Finally we arrived in Dachau at 4 am. I was taken to the infirmary. I was lying in bed there for four weeks. My hand was hurt because an SS man hit it, and it had to be operated. In the infirmary they treated us satisfactorily. I was there along with Gentile Czech and Dutch prisoners, who received packages and shared them with us. The rest were taken to quarantine, and they were doing much more badly than we did. I was staying in the block for two days and then put on a transport. We set off on foot again, but we reached Allach soon. There we built bunkers and later we were appointed to do cementing in night shift. It was very hard work. We had to carry upstairs cement sacks of 50 kilograms each.
Our food supply consisted of one-third of a loaf of bread, one litre of soup and Zulage. Five hundred of us stayed in a block and two of us slept in a bed. A little bit later younger men were singled out and taken to perform easier work. From there we went to Stalltach with a transport. This place is close to Landsberg, not far from Munich. We were roaming about aimlessly and nobody knew where we were taken to. On May 1 the Americans liberated us. From there they took us to Landsberg. We were staying there for two months, and then I came home via Pilsen, Prague and Bratislava.

As for my future plans, I have two uncles in America and I would like to find my way to them.