The persons in question have given us the following information: 
 
About 5,000-6,000 Jewish families lived in Kassa. Most of them dealt with industry and 
trade. A number of them were wealthy people, but of course, several of them were poor. 
We lived free from worries, in financially sound circumstances. When we still belonged 
to the Czech Republic we enjoyed equal rights with the Christians, but immediately after 
the Hungarians' entry the persecution of the Jews began. 80 percent of the Jews' trade 
licenses were taken away already in 1942. 
 
The Germans entered on 19th March 1944. Shortly after that we had to go to the ghetto. 
Before that, when they searched our houses, detectives of the Hungarian police and the 
army looted us. They took away all our valuables: money, jewellery, our radios, paintings 
and carpets. They left only 30 pengős with everybody, at some places not even that much 
and they even beat the people at that. In Kassa, they first gathered the Jews in some 
streets of the city. Later we were dragged to the ghetto in the brickyard, escorted by the 
Hungarian police and gendarmerie. Although we could take some underwear and food 
with us, they took away everything from us already there, in the ghetto, before our 
deportation. Scandalous beatings were an everyday occurrence in the ghetto, several 
people fell victim to these; unfortunately I cannot remember their names.   
 
Before the deportation they made us believe that they would take us to work in Hungary, 
in Hortobágy. We did not believe that, because they also took my 96-year-old great-
grandmother away. So, we knew they were not taking us to work. We did not suspect 
where they were taking us. I had no idea that Auschwitz existed. I would have never 
been able to imagine that such a thing could exist at all.  
 
We were travelling for 3 days without food and water. They forbade us to speak loudly. 
A female teacher was shot dead in our cattle car, because she had talked loudly.  
 
We arrived in Auschwitz, where they separated me from my parents and my younger 
sister. They accommodated me in Camp C. Our task was to carry stones from one place 
to another. I worked as a hairdresser and one night I did the hair of the Lagerälteste. 
When I came home I saw a terrible sight. It was exactly when the Czech Lager was being 
taken to the crematorium. They had stripped them naked and had put them on trucks, they 
were taking them to the crematorium like that. I saw old people mixed with young ones 
and children on the trucks. 
 
We suffered much from hunger. Even the little food we got was inedible. There were 
small stones in the soup we got and the soup itself was a liquid made of some tasteless 
green grass. They woke us up at 2 o'clock at night and we were lining up for Zählappell; 
since many of us had not received shoes, we were forced to stand barefoot for hours in 
the cold, in the mud. If somebody covered herself with a blanket at the Appell, she was 
punished: they beat her up or took away her ration. It often happened at such punishments 
that people were so much beaten or their lungs were hit with a stick so strongly that they 
did not survive till the next day. In those times, selections were made every day, later on 
every other day. The ill people were not treated for their illnesses, but they were directly 
taken to the crematorium. There was no water to wash ourselves with, so many of us 
became scabby.  
 
In August, we were taken with a transport of labourers to Reichenbach, Oberschleisen. 
We worked in a factory, 12 hours a day. One week we worked in daytime, the other week 
at night. Our provisions consisted of a simple soup and 200 grams of bread. They beat us 
all the time and those who did not work enough were accused of sabotage and her hair 
was cut. Before the evacuation of the camp, the hair of 15 girls was cut. The 
Kommandoführer was a notorious sadist. We did not receive shoes even for the winter; I 
walked barefoot myself. Of course, I fell ill, but I continued working because we were 
afraid to report sick. When we worked in a night shift, the Aufseherins did not allow us 
even to go to the toilet.  
 
The camp was evacuated in January, because the Russians were close. We were marching 
for a week with nothing else than half of a loaf of bread. We had to climb mountains, 
1,000 metres high. We had to go very quickly because we were being chased. We arrived 
in Trattenau, but we did not receive any food in the following two days. We were given a 
loaf of bread and every five of us received a tin of meat for the journey. Then, they put us 
in open coal freight cars.  
We were travelling to Porta for a week and they did not give us any food during the 
journey. They gave us something to eat for the first time two days later in Porta, near 
Hamburg, at the Dutch border: a poor soup and a loaf of bread cut into 16 pieces. We 
worked 8 hours a day in an underground radio factory. We had to march 8 kilometres 
through a mountain to the factory and back every day. We spent only 4 weeks there.  
  
Then, as a response to the Americans' approach, they evacuated us to Fallersleben, from 
where they immediately took us to Salzwedel. There we starved very much. We had no 
possibility to wash; we did not even see soap. One week later, the American troops 
liberated us.  
 
Now our only aim is to go to Palestine as soon as possible.