The person in question has given us the following information: 

I was the delegated physician of the Mátra state sanatorium for pulmonary disease when a gendarme lieutenant named Zöldi appeared and checked my papers and found them in order. After two days he came again with four SS soldiers and ordered me to pack all my belongings without explanation; moreover he took all my papers. They put me into a car while beating and kicking me, and took me to the collecting camp in Hatvan. Two days later, together with 3000 other Jews, I was taken to Auschwitz on a terrible, five-day-long journey. I was put to the right during the first selection. All the doctors were separated with the pretext that we were to be taken to work in hospitals. Therefore they said we should give them all our medical equipment, which would be given back to us after the shower. Naturally, we never saw the equipment again.
I spent only three days in Auschwitz, and then 8000 of us were moved to Mauthausen. We were beaten by the SS soldiers while getting in and out of the trains. In Mauthausen we stayed outdoors in the rain for hours before we were taken to the bath. After that we were assigned to blocks where we were packed like sardines in a tin. We were there for four days and then we were taken to Melk.
We had to perform extremely hard physical work in that camp. Partly we pushed heavy iron trams, we worked with pickaxes, but the most difficult was the mine work where we had to use the drill. If we did not work continuously, we were beaten right away. On the first day I received 75 strokes, because I did not hack the loamy soil well enough. My heart specialist colleague, Dr Mandel from Marosvásárhely had to go to the infirmary with serious heart atrium problems, which is known to be life-threatening. I was doing that heavy work for five weeks while I was continuously beaten.
After five weeks I fell ill with pneumonia and I was lying in bed for three weeks. I had to start to work again immediately after my recovery. One night one of the SS soldiers asked me how I was. It was cold and I answered that I would feel fine if I had a coat like his. Because of this the chief capo was beating me for five hours with a truncheon and a wooden stick. During the beating I collapsed and lost my conscience several times and my left arm was broken, so I had to go back to the infirmary where my arm was plastered. I lay there for eight days. Afterwards I was employed as a doctor. I was the lung specialist of the infirmary. Then I got my own hospital room with 120 patients with pneumonia.
I did not receive proper medication against pneumonia for the seriously ill. I did not receive any heart medication either, therefore approximately 40 or 50 percent of the patients died, whereas under normal circumstances only six percent should have died. 
Nutrition was extremely defective inasmuch as the workers performing heavy physical work received a maximum of 1800 calories only, instead of the necessary 4000 calories. According to Wehrmacht regulations, the prisoners should have gotten the same provisions as the members of the Wehrmacht. As far as I know, all officers from the Lagerführer to the last capo were stealing most of the food.
As a result of malnutrition, the ill people’s body had virtually no resistance and that was why so many people died. So even if they had provided more medication I could not have achieved the same efficiency as I could when I was at home. 
In the summer of 1944 most people died of dysentery, paratyphoid fever and diarrhoea. Despite our repeated requests and pleas the necessary Eleudron was not provided by the Scharführer named Musikant. As a result most of my brothers-in-arms died. Finally when Eleudron was provided and effective quantities were given to the ill, the number of deaths suddenly decreased.
There were a large number of people ill with purulent inflammation, which was present in a form that had never been seen before by surgeons. The main reasons behind this were malnutrition and stress, therefore a large percent of these patients also died. Moreover, since in autumn we wore only a single layer of striped uniform, we had a large number of people who caught a cold and fell ill with bronchitis and pneumonia, both of which also had serious consequences.
After the cold winter had set in and the prisoners were physically deteriorated, large number of heart diseases appeared seemingly without any reason. Due to the lack of proper heart medication around 80 percent of the patients died from this disease. A great number of our fellow prisoners died in heart failure. According to the statistics out of 8000 prisoners 6000 died in this camp in ten months.
I was in Melk until the beginning of April, then after the evacuation of that camp I was taken to Ebensee. We were crammed into the bottom of a Hungarian barge. We were travelling in sizzling heat. Many fainted during the trip, some of them also died. We were shipped to Linz and from there we had to march 90 kilometres to Ebensee in three days without any food or water. Most of the brothers-in-arms who could not make it were shot, but some were put on and carried further by trucks. 
In Ebensee we got potato skin soup for four weeks straight. This is where I got diarrhoea and laid ill in a hospital naked with a single sheet for four days. There were 120 of us ill with diarrhoea, out of which 15 or 20 died daily. Four of us were lying on a bunk. I had to spend the whole night with a corpse next to me. The dead bodies were taken out only in the morning.
Four of us had to eat soup from the same bowl and spoons were scarcely handed out.
Bathing facilities were also minimal. All the beds were dirty from the ill with diarrhoea and there was hardly any opportunity to sanitise and clean them. 
By the time we were liberated I had lost 45 kilograms from my original 90 kilograms and I was in such a poor condition that I could hardly walk. The American troops took me to the military hospital in Goisern where I managed to gain 14 kilograms in six weeks. Our treatment was first class. It was partly due to the citizens of Goisern lead by the mayor, whose name was Bronnern and was an anti-Fascist. He contributed to our food a great deal. Besides he also acquired shoes and clothes for most of our fellow prisoners.
I could have stayed in that hospital for a longer time, but my homesickness drove me home. Therefore I set off for home with the last Romanian transport about two weeks ago. I travelled by American trucks to Melk and from Melk by a Russian car to Wiener Neustadt. After disinfection and a medical check-up I was enlisted. Next day I organised my trip on my own on cargo and passenger trains and arrived in Budapest.