The person in question has given us the following information:

I lived in Kövesdliget with my parents and my little siblings.  I earned my living as a dressmaker. 
About 100-110 Jewish families lived there and with the exception of 2-3 of them they were all poor 
people, who earned their daily living by working in the industry or in the fields. In April 1944 after 
the German invasion, the Jews were exposed to ceaseless insults; the windows were broken, we did 
not dare to go out to the street, otherwise the gendarmes beat up the men cruelly.  The notary of the 
town hall, Béla Riaka, did not care at all about what happened to Jews. If we needed something, for 
example a pair of shoes or some other thing to be allocated to us, he always refused to give it to us. 
If an occasion to do harm to us presented itself, he was more than willing to get involved in that. 

On the dawn of 10th April, military gendarmes appeared in our flat and they did not even give us 
time enough to pack up properly; they took us to the ghetto in Szeklence. Men were taken to work, 
and they were often beaten up heavily by SS men as well as by gendarmes.  As for our provisions, a 
soup kitchen was set up for us. The food was poor because there were thousands of people there, 
whom the soup kitchen could not properly feed. Those who had been able to pack food for 
themselves at home completed their rations with the food they had brought with them. 
On 24th May they entrained us. 110 of us were put in a cattle car, squeezed together with old 
people and children. We were not given any water in the cattle cars, we were thirsty and the 
children were crying for water. I do not really know what we would have given for a glass of 
water, but if we asked the gendarmes for it, they turned their guns at us. The door was sealed 
and there were gratings on the window; we were locked up like prisoners, we were not even 
allowed to look out of the window. Military gendarmes escorted us to Kassa, where they handed us 
over to the Germans. In Kassa, the labour servicemen passed up 2 buckets of water and 12 loaves 
of bread in every cattle car. 

After three days of travelling we arrived in Auschwitz. It was 12 o’clock noon when we arrived and 
we had to leave the luggage in the cattle cars. I was separated from my parents and siblings and I 
was taken to the bath and from that to Camp A. We did not have to work; we were lining up for roll 
call all day long; they chased us out to the courtyard in the rain and mud. Selections were made in 
the block, an SS woman called Grésa came in and whomever she looked at she made to stand in a 
separate line and she had them taken away and they never came back. 

6 weeks later, on 25th July we went from Auschwitz to Stutthof. There they put us in a clean camp. 
We received very little food. The Lagerführer beat us very often and we were hungry, so we were 
somewhat shoving for food when they distributed the lunch. They beat us with the ladle so as to 
discourage us even from eating. The food was bad, but we were so hungry that however bad it 
was we shoved for it. After 3 days they took us to Brannau. In Brannau we worked at first for 
Poll#etrieb and then for Fürsteller ammunition factory. When the factories ceased working we cut 
down trees in the forest. We worked 15 hours in two shifts in the ammunition factory. Polish 
women and SS women guarded us and they hurried us all the time; if we stopped for a minute, they 
beat us up. There was a reveille at 3 o’clock in the morning, we received black coffee for breakfast 
and we went to the workplace by train. The journey was 15 minutes long. The Polish women gave 
us lunch in the factory and when we went home at 8 o’clock in the evening we got some soup and 
300 grams of bread. On Sundays we received a little margarine. The air was stuffy in the factory; 
we worked with poisonous gas and many of us fell ill. Once they took me to the infirmary, but 
already 6 days later, although I was still very weak and I had a fever, I had to work again. When 
spring was coming we went to the forest to cut wood. It was a difficult man’s job, but yet we were 
in the open air and it felt good to inhale the fresh air from which we had been locked up for months. 
We stayed in Brannau till the end of March and one day they ordered us to line up. We did not 
receive any food for the way and we set off on foot towards Berlin. SS guarded us. On the fourth 
day the guards disappeared and we were left alone. We went on alone and one day later the 
Russians liberated us in Lamberg.
After our liberation we went to German flats where the Russians supported us with food; we 
acquired clothes and stayed there for 4 weeks. 
In early July we came home with a Czech and Slovak transport. I will stay in Budapest for some 
days, then I will go home to Kövesdliget to see if I find any of my relatives at home.