The persons in question have given us the following information:

Mária Jakobovics: My parents had a grocery shop, we lived in good financial conditions.
Cecilia Goldenzeit: We were farmers and also lived in good conditions.

One thousand Jews lived in Alsószinve. In 1941, many of them were deported to Poland, 
so there were only approximately 300 Jews left. It happened on the 23rd of March that 
Hungarian sappers gathered Jews of the village and locked us up in a Jewish house. Here we 
were guarded by armed soldiers, and were not allowed to go out to the street for four weeks. 
They let women out one week before Easter, but men remained in captivity. On the first of 
May, we were gathered again and driven to Huszt by trucks.

The Huszt ghetto consisted of nine streets. We were put in the same flat. Gendarmes guarded 
the order outside, whereas Jewish policemen kept order inside. Then came the SS, and by that 
time we were already very much afraid. Some tried to escape, no one was caught as far as we 
know. Women were searched very thoroughly by a midwife so that we could not hide 
anything. We had a common kitchen, here we did not yet know hunger. We could not 
complain of the activities of the Jewish Council (members: Lazarovics, Mauskopf, etc). They 
kept saying in those days that we would not be deported to Germany, only the girls 
would be taken to work into the mother country and the boys would stay, but we did not 
believe this fairy-tale and knew that something horrible was awaiting us.

The Jewish Council let us know that the first transport would leave the following day, but 
until the last moment we did not know its destination. Gendarmes and Hungarian soldiers 
rounded us up, drove us into the brick factory, where we were searched very thoroughly once 
more, almost everything we had was taken away, only two dresses and three pieces of 
underwear were left, and they told us that we would not need even those. Of course our 
documents were also taken away. We were entrained here in the brick factory on the 22nd of 
May, 80 people in a freight car, we did not get water or a bucket for the toilet. Military 
gendarmes accompanied us. They opened the freight cars in Kassa. We did not know if 
anybody tried to escape. No one died in our freight car. In Kassa they handed the freight car 
over to Germans, and when we reached the Slovakian border, we unfortunately saw that we 
would enter Germany. During the journey the SS would continuously come in, and demand 
jewellery and money and would threaten to shoot us if we did not give them any. Everybody 
was very much scared. Whoever still had some valuables was in a hurry to hand them over. 
We met another transport on the way. When we looked out of the wagon we saw that women 
and men were separated, and our hearts sank.

We arrived in Auschwitz the 26th of May, Polish Jewish prisoners opened the freight cars, we 
had to leave everything in the cars, and we got off. As we were getting off, they warned us 
that we were 20 years old and that we should let the children stay with the elderly. We 
lined up five in a row before they separated women from men and took us into a forest. We 
saw great fires, we had no idea what these could have been and thought they would chase us 
straight into the fire. No one knew anything. When we arrived in the baths, they made us take 
all our clothes off, we lined up, only our shoes were left, in another room they cut our hair off 
and took everything away from us. We got into Camp C, block 8, about 1,200 of us, 14-16 of 
us lay on a bunk. Rations comprised a quarter of a loaf of bread a day, some inedible soup, 
later Zulag. During roll calls we would stand for half a day, or even kneel, until at last the 
number was correct. Block curfews were also frequent. We stayed here for six months, we did 
not work at all, which made it even worse. Selections were very frequent, towards the end 
almost every day, because they wanted to empty the camp. Selections were done by Dr 
Mengele. They would search for us even under the beds so that no one could hide, they were 
search us forming chains. Dr Mengele decided over life and death with a simple wave of 
his hand while whistling. Our block was a children’s block from 12 to 16-year-old children, 
we were 20-year-old, we were adults. The crematorium was just opposite us, we always saw 
the smoke, continuously smelled the stench of burnt bones and flesh. One evening, when 
there were selections, we saw a black car through the back door, which was full of naked 
children. They had been selected. A little boy was shouting very much. He asked why the 
car was in such a hurry, and said that he knew where the car was taking them to burn 
them, so why could it not wait till later? Everybody knew that the weak ones had been 
singled out, they already knew where they would end up. Once, at a selection 550 women 
were picked, they were taken to the FKL camp, to the baths, we were led by two SS on the 
road, who did not know that we had been selected for a transport, but took us straight to 
crematorium. We were almost there when we met two female supervisors, who asked where 
we were heading, and explained that this was a transport. If we had not met these supervisors, 
we would have been taken to crematorium.

Next, we were entrained, 60 of us in a freight car, we got food for a three days long journey, 
and after four days of acceptable travelling we arrived in Nürnberg, where we had a separate 
camp, which did not even have an electric fence. We lived in blocks, 30 people in a room, we 
had normal beds, everybody slept in their own beds. Supplies were also quite satisfactory, 
because we worked. We contributed to the making of radio parts. The work was quite hard, 
we worked in 12-hours shifts at night and day.

Russian troops were approaching us, we survived many bombings, our block burned down 
three times. During the last bombing we were already in the bunkers, but a bomb fell in, the 
entrance was ruined. There were two soldiers standing here, two female supervisors, but only 
fragments remained of them, however, miraculously no prisoners were hurt. We spent three 
days in the bunker, and were then taken away to Haleischen because Russians were 
approaching us. They put 70 people in a freight car, we had no supplies for the five-day 
journey, many weak people died on the way.

At the beginning of March, we arrived in Holeischen, the camp of course had a wire fence. 
We worked in the ammunition factory, we were making oil-bombs, but we sabotaged 
whenever we could by simply not inserting the fuses into the bombs. When they realised it we 
of course got 25 blows with a club, but we would still do it nonetheless. Here we also worked 
12 hours a day, but supplies were very meagre.

On the 5th of May, Polish partisans came and liberated us.  They captured SS women and 
handed them over to us to do whatever we wanted with them. There were 1,170 prisoners 
there, 700 French, 400 Hungarians, we ourselves beat four SS-women and an SS-man to 
death. Next day, Americans arrived, after that we had normal treatment, we also got 
medicine. Soon afterwards we set off for home with a Czech transport through Pilsen and 
Pozsony.

Our future plans: we will go to Palestine as soon as possible.