The person in question has given us the following information: 

We were taken from Csákvár to Mór and then from there to Székesfehérvár. Here the Jews were locked up in the brick factory. On June 13 we were entrained, set off and by the 17th we were in Auschwitz. Prior to the departure the gendarmes deprived us of everything and crammed 75 people into a cattle car. The cars were sealed and they did not give us water during the whole travel. There was a bucket in the car for bodily needs. The Gestapo took us over in Kassa. We were given water there for the first time. We had food we brought with us, but of course we tried to save it up, since we wanted to have food from home after the arrival. We did not yet know that we had to leave everything in the cattle car. 

In Auschwitz I was torn away from my wife immediately. My 15-year-old son came with me to the bath where our hair was cropped, our whole bodies were epilated and all of our clothes were taken away. We were given striped prisoner’s uniform in exchange. My son was assigned to a different barrack where later an epidemic broke out. The barrack was sealed and it was still closed when I left on July 8. I have not heard from my family ever since.    

I did not work in Auschwitz: the whole day was spent with the roll call. We were given black coffee in the morning, soup made out of dried vegetables at noon and 10 decagrams of bread and half a decagram of margarine in the evening. Many times there were selections. I was also selected and assigned to leave with a transport of 800. 

Fifty people travelled in one freight car. We were escorted by Wehrmacht guards, which delighted us, since they were more decent by all means than the SS. 

We arrived in Allach where we were accommodated at the Bayerische Motorwerke and we went to different working places from there. Our job included rubble clearance, barrack construction, railway construction, etc. We were treated very badly: they constantly beat us without any reason and for the smallest reasons. For example we were allowed to exit the barrack only through the right side of the door, while entering was permitted on the left side. Once I did the other way around and therefore the capo caught me and gave me 25 blows with his club. The capo was called Knoll and he was a political prisoner, who had spent already 11 years in the camp. He killed plenty of Jews. 

Three hundred to four hundred of us lived in a cement barrack. Two of us slept in one bed with two blankets. We could heat the place if we managed to steal coal and wood. The reveille was at 4 am followed by bathing, having three decilitres of coffee and a roll call. If the numbers did not match, the roll call lasted for hours. We stood there in the cold rain in prisoner’s uniform without a coat. Then we left for the working place. Six guards escorted a group of 25 prisoners. The first phase of the work lasted from 6 am until noon when a litre of cabbage or turnip soup was distributed. We had to work with that amount of food until 6 pm. Then came the march back followed by another roll call and then dinner consisting of 20 decagrams of bread, two decagrams of butter and three decilitres of coffee. Afterwards we could go to sleep and the next morning the whole process started again. We could not rest on Sundays either, but we had to perform penal work then. 

Our attire was summer clothes in the winter and winter clothes in the summer. We had to wear clogs without toe rags. Feet were blistered, hands got frostbitten, teeth were knocked out. 

There was a Lagerältester named Busch, whose mother was French. He was the only person treating us as human beings. When he did the roll call, it was done in five minutes. This was unimaginable with anybody else. 

Opposite to us there was the Christians’ camp. The SS men frequently amused themselves by coming out of there with bloodhounds, which they set upon us. 

When the Americans were getting very close, we were entrained on April 23 to be taken away to be killed. They were pushing the train up and down, since the railway lines were all occupied; we covered 30 kilometres in a week. Then we were pushed to a sidetrack and we were waiting there for something to happen with us. We starved intensely, since we did not get anything to eat on the way. 

Lodofszky, the director of the Nagysurány sugar factory and Endre Vas, owner of a Székesfehévár leather factory died in the freight car.  

When we caught sight of the Americans, we felt that all of our sufferings were gone. We were taken to hospital; a typhoid fever epidemic broke out. German nurses took care of us: we were treated very well. The food supply was satisfactory. 

I came home with a Romanian transport. Many Hungarians are still abroad.